Tutor Primary daycare cum tuition industry Salary pre deduction: RM 1900 inclusive of allowances Penang Male,Chinese, twenties Still pursuing Bachelor's degree 2 one-year experience in this field The company is small sized with about ten staff. Average working hours is six hours per 1 do think Fm a valuable asset to the company because can teach all five main subjects and handle the students' school homework.  day: Got new offer from Malaysian bank based in RM4.Sk per month as assistant manager not included allowances, yearly salary fix RM390 2 every year: told me that bank min salary 6 was RM3.3k per month: For someone like me who only earn below than 2.5k, i was like "wowl" Hahaha pity me 2 Oh and my senior told me that bonus never below than 4 month KL, They Education and training: Flexi benefits of RM12OO (to claim your internet billslopticall gadjets/dentallpersonal insurance/ etrext year employee will be given 1 a wellness allowance_ Maternity benefits, covers female employees and spouses of 0 male employees. Normal: RM25OO/pregnancy, Caesarian: RM37sO/pregnancy; Miscarriage or abortion: RM2sOO/pregnancy 8 The only downside can think of so far is the office (I'm based in KL office) which can't really accommodate everyone at one time and the pantry is very small: So some team will require to atertatworbibrot deskirice: they 1 don't really mind for this as wfh anyway: The company (my manager especially) is very for Ex-Cabin Crew; low cost carrier 38, Chinese, F Was a crew for 3 years KLIA Diploma Salary then 3-4k (as junior crew) 4-5k as senior crew 8 J Being a cabin crew was one of the highlights of my it wasn't about being glamorous or putting on a uniform or the travelling,but it was the camaraderie of being a 8 crew: It was fun most of all, and relatively stress-free, and no paperwork to bring home: Every you fly with a new set of crew; so there's no such like "oh shit everyday see the same boss' face" life , day thing accountability: The job is ruthless, expected to work 6 days a week oitemomesiticiag cpmrolegsatioide 1 of an engineer's scope. The reluctance to accept new ideas and young talents is one of the 1 most frustrating part of construction in MY: To me, const will slowly turn into something like the education sector in the next few years, such a pillar of our anciealenuesaingdeecevelooecero 1 prospect. key How to grow in your field of work? It's not rocket science but also what our company does is quite niche_ Luck plays a role in getting me to where am today; but also, this might sound cliche but you make your own luck: I've seen many people who complains that just can't seem to find the right job that 1 Peretegnitien ne eodght deserve at work, but frankly speaking just by working hard isn't going to you very far: You need to constantly sharpen your soft skills, knows how to present yourself professionally; always think about what can you do differentlyl better than what is taught to you, and know when to speak Up, or when to walk away: they they get they they get Manager; Planning Higher Education Industry 26,M, Chinese 4 years exp, same job since grad 1 Selangor Masters Rm6.5k 1 don't think people should focus 3 purely on the salary (although it is super important!), but rather the package as a whole. | think my 7 work life balance is very; very good, with good team and company culture, which is why | haven't changed companies. Challenge yourself believe in a S growth mindset and a strong work ethic. Never allow learning to plateau in any role. In the past when my learning is slowing in a role, start looking out for other roles and leave for a 20-40% pay } raise: If you are doing the same 1 thing day in and out, it is unreasonable to expect the company to pay more for the same value you provide. Constantly learn and provide more value to the company; then you have grounds for asking for better pay: 3 Strictly no OT (unless absolutely necessary which is usually never from 1 what I've observed) and working on weekends is unheard of. Previously jumped through two agencies. And although I've learned a lot the hustling culture, along with the politics and the awards chasing just isn't for me 1 In-house design is a lot more slower and chill in contrast: Every company will have busy periods or days but the agency life where you live and breathe design 24/7 is terrible if you want work life balance. 1 This is what makes me felt demotivated, and stressed when we carry SO many responsibilities and tasks but at the end of the day our pay is like smaller then bird food Otealateileekerdis reedtitcedOvecaoneall J 7 and there will be non stop cases And are rotating same staffs for time work and oncall without taking any new staff And im the only one qualified endoscope nurse here with post basic. For me felt like getting underpaid and 1 no appreciation for the job scope im done they day Ialso done SEO freelance service during nighttime with average RM 2-3K per month with minimum 8 contract of 6 month per job. 1 Moral of the story : dont be afraid to fight for your worth; know what re contributing to the Aororany ande,oncaensecetfaitlF , 1 stayed at the first company with RMI.8K salary with max RM3OO increment; i can only have RM 3K by 2022. you'[ Please, 1 DO NOT JUST FOCUS ON THE EXPERIENCE AND SALARY. @malaysianpaygap MAKE SURE YOU CAN HANDLE THE LONG WORK HOURS. IF YOU CAN'T, JUST REJECT THE JOB OFFER. 1 DO NOT BE LIKE ME Internal auditor at an MNC 29 joined at 27 years old Quit external audit after joining for 2 years Current pay: RM 5k (without deduction Happy with switch as an 1 internal auditor at an Germany J MNC as does really focus on work-life balance. Still able to work from home until today: Decided to make a switch as could not withstand with the workloads and tonnes of deadlines to meet in external audit and at senior associate level earning a meagre 1 pay at only rm3.2k: Tired of the travelling life too and it depends on the senior-in-charge on when helshe decided to leave the fieldwork, that's only the time juniors able to leave. my they For distributor company _ It functions like a middle agency: They do not manufacture own drugs, but manage client's portfolio when these companies restructure & outsource:. Distributor usually pays lesser (car 1 allowance ard 700-9002)_ because also need to hit their target for the client with minimal cost: 1 Benefit is easier to get in (like bulk slaves haha) , manage multiple 8 innovator companies (build connection to enter those companies) , and can do internal change (more teams to switch). Also sometimes treated as more "stable" as the innovator 8 companies are always restructuring =cut cost = cut headcounts there and outsource to distributor: they Assistant Librarian (private education) 30, Malay; Female 6 years Kuala Lumpur Bachelor's Degree Current salary: RM 2,300 (after sosco, EPF deduction) feel deserve more considering am doing multiple people's tasks 1 without anyone's help. My salary haven't change for years. I'm thinking of taking a second job. 1 1 0 don't have any savings: 1 just cannot do this anymore. People always tell me that should a Master degree to improve my position but knowing the attitude of general Malaysian companies toward librarianship overall and the current job market; it is ridiculous to a Master atm_ don't have money nor do have time. get get What I'm wanna to spread out to here is be careful of urself; there are a lot of company like to brainwash employees to become their slave. After this brainwash company find my company noW; and I'm working well here: Learning a lot 1 everyday; boss is a positive person; nothing negative you can hear from him and I'm glad I'm ] earning what dream hope all of the people out there struggling of their job, hope you al will achieve what you want and work hard for the correct person 1 (boss) , cuz nowadays a lot of employees are not working in a healthy environment: I'm very glad Im lucky enough to share my experiences and hope God bless you all of. Negatives 1) Usually just staring at computer for hours 2) Busy schedule 3) Don't have financial stability as working on contract basis. Renew every 2-3 years subject to perfoohaaceh reereefits 7 3 5) 7 days annual leave 0 My advice to fellow grads is to a job at a MNC or GLC company because that's where the money is. These companies are willing to pay up to RM 30k a month if you're good and committed in your job. Don't waste yr time with SME's or local poviaice and Rack ofoprogrebsoon 1 and funds. I've been working for IBM for 10 years now and never regretted that decision: try get On top of that, all your reports must be submitted correctly and on time if not, it does take a hit to your KPI too_ I've never believed in anxiety before. But after the pandemic, the pressure on teachers doubled and personally 1 had a few anxiety attacks at the office when / can't hit my KPI: Crying in the bathroom trying to calm myself down is totally an unpleasant experience: | had to sign up for therapy to manage this. @malaysianpaygap NEEd YOUR Hi malaysiapaygap, want to ask for your followers' and advice. | am told today that have been laid off by employer But asked me to submit a one month notice instead of them retrenching me About 35% of the staffs are retrenched: They said dont get enough fundings which is funny bc new staffs keep coming in: My contract is until January 2023 though:. This whole situation is very new to me so want to know what is the procedure of being laid off? Can laid me off when am still under contract? hope you or your follower can provide some insight on my situation . Advice_ your my they they they Job HSE Specialist (Safety & Health Officer) Location North Malaysia Industry Construction (PMC) 1 Ral2yooo-tax RM19,000  Gender Male Age : 34 % Race Malay Qualification Diploma + DOSH Registered SHO Years of Experience 11+ Years Not all shipping companies pay well especially Malaysian companies like MISC. Even though are a huge company; they pay cadets 200USD per month and promotions are slow: 1 It is better for anyone who'd like to 8 enter this industry to not accept sponsorships from malaysian companies so as to have the freedom of choice and end up with foreign companies which cares about the welfare of seafarers. they (S iT Normal? Is it normal for companies to prorate your salary and/or leaves after ve resigned? Prorate: When your last day falls on a weekend(s) or public holiday: They will deduct your pay by 1-3 days if say your last working is a Thursday: Example: Friday PH, Sunday(Last Working Day) 2 months pay (~) 3 days. If it's not normal__. what should do?  you' L day Currently there are worker shortages in F&B industries: Like me, | am sometimes requires to stay back when any one of the workers took leave, as the 4 restaurant is severely short- handed: (2 cashiers + 2 kitchen crew only) Overall; It is a worthwhile experience: appreciate how the 7 managers and colleagues taught me patiently and placidly, but the pay there was relatively low after deducting EPF and SOCSO The pay will not be counted if u do not work full for 30 mins Eg: U worked for 6hr 20 mins only: 1 The HR will count ur pay as 6hrs only: The 20 min salary will not be counted, and managers will not brief U on that Working here has helped me to learn a lot about real-life industrial workflow which | didn't study about during my university period: However; long term of working in 24/7 basis has caused serious burnt up to my mental: Sometimes weekend, or even public holiday have to do office works, or fodchine3 are marfbletioningenever 1 Company does give extra allowances such as petrol allowances, phone allowance, etc. Although not a lot, but still can help cover a very small portion of the phone and petrol bills: I'm not sure if Im being underpaid currently: need to seek for public pcodsectiogardingaynaacturing & 1 addition, also feel that most engineers are having heavy workloads BUT being underpaid. have multiple thoughts trying to change field but I'm not sure what to do. need you guys' help. Thank you very much: SO, you workers cannot discuss Wages amongst selves k mpg @MALAYSIANPAYGAP Marketing & PR 27 Female Chinese 4 years Degreo holder 1 1 consider myself being fairly but I do think regular career conversations between managerl employer and employees is 9 important; to discuss about career progression; advancement, goals 8 and pay raise, which is often neglected at work. paid In ON Bi0. Link Best Desktopi In-house lawyer; MNC 3 years KL LLB + BPTC 3 6.2k inc benefits Left practice end of last year to go in 0 house and I'm very happy so far: | expect my salary to be stagnant eventually compared to my peers but think it's reasonable because no longer work 7 days a week: My boss and seniors are great and are willing to guide me. They're always telling me to 1 stop working so much (was used to my ex firm's culture lol)_ 1 usually off my laptop by evening and I've never worked on a weekend before_ know people kept saying don't compare yourself with others in terms of careers or success but when i look at my same-age friends or even people who are in their 20's afford to buy Mazda Cx-3s and all make me even questioning myself is it worth working at a company that i really really love and passionate but being treated like a robot. 1 am in the midst of getting myself a new job buy at the same time i'm sad that would be leaving something that love but know deep down is a toxic where the management only think about themselves but not the people who are with them who are passionate of the company: What's stopping me is. my jobless husband have kids. And no money Commitments Family financial situation lack of mobility freedom (driving licence etc) bond :') Simply, the inescapable traps of life: My Data Analyst, FMCG (MNC) 26, Malay; Male 1year (fresh grad, still in probation) KL Degree RM2OOO (before deduction) The work environment there is 2 super nice: The boss,managers, colleagues are very kind towards me. Since know I'm a freshie, are teaching and guiding me very patiently: Im grateful and happy to land a 1 job right after completing my degree; as know it's very hard to a job during this pandemic, especially for fresh grads Basically, I'm very happy with the work environment there, but I'm a bit concern about the salary: Hence, I'm sharing it here to get opinions/views from the seniors in this fieldjindustry: Am underpaid? 6 they they get 3. You get only what you ask Set the bar high and then lower it to the level of what you wanted: Oftentimes, simply by asking for something; you will receive significantly more than you expect: Assume nothing about the other party's true motives. Dont underestimate them: Advice: Please don't be a teacher if you don't do it for the real reason: It is not 'just another job' Technical information regarding a government teacher's salary package: -The yearly increment amount changes according to the grade (refer attached image) time-based service in DG (grade for teachers) , the first three 1 promotions of grade happen once every eight years and for the remaining years, the promotion is every five years until retirement ~Upon confirmation in service (beginning of career) , teachers are given the options to choose between EPF scheme and pension scheme. If Uponeetiremerhethe eacheegethen 0 amount of money (refer attached image) monthly until he dies; then the pension goes to the spouse, and when the spouse dies, it goes to the child(ren) below 21 years old: (Pension does not stop for an OKU child) ~When retired, the teacher receives two lump sums of monies: gratuity golden handshake (refer attached image) ~For If you have a lot of free time (like did) , learn new skills, take courses online, and offer your services to clients Also, keep improving your craft; execution speed and quality because clients are willing to pay more for good quality works: 1 There are a lot of designers who have only 1 skill (design) . Imagine you can also coding (front-end), you end up having 2 skills: As a company; would you hire people S with 1 skill? or 2 skills? The people with 2 skills end up getting more_ think that's 1 got paid that amount:  paid why Max basic salary can go up to 5.5k only (if you retire at 60 ylo). For me, it's quite fun to work with students as your 'clients' Work hour 7-2:30pm. You can offer private tuition classes. Monthly side income will be 1 ncundanystuzentfleoehaven 1 average about RM8O-12O/student based on the current market)_ highest monthly income record was last year Dec RM4.2k as offered many school holiday classes. My How Much t0 NEGOTIATE? Digital Marketing Manager Multinational hospitality chain based in Kuala Lumpur: My third week of the probation period: MYR 6500 (Including Allowance , good benefits) Female 30 Chinese Degree in Business  Communication and certifications in Data Analysis, Marketing & Digital Marketing: 8 years of experience, ran my digital marketing agency for 3 years. at first, was offered for On Job Training for 8 months and after that company decided to hire me as an employee (2 years contract) with 1 RM3,900 salary: after 3 months, they increase salary to RM4,OOO. working hour: 8 hours, monday friday (no shift) @malaysianpaygap in my pOV, im a valuable asset for company bcs my product knowledge 1 is good and capable to perform as per company direction i.e. term of procedure, time management; job scope etc. as a result received couple of awards (got cert) throughout 2 and a half year: my The company counter offered me and asked what can they do to make me to stay: Most of my familyl friends/colleagues suggested to find a better job. PS. This was the second time of resigning: Thought there would be 1 some improvement after hearing promises made but nothing much improved, rather the working culture have worsened: Truly appreciate if anyone can share your advice whether should yet stay  Did Vou Sign A NON= CoMDETE AGREEMENT? Hello MPG Im aware that there are companies out there forcing employees to Sign Non-Compete Agreements/clauses in order for them to continue their employment: However; wish the page can remind everyone over this issue as cited in. Section 28 of the Malaysian Contracts Act 1950 (section 28) states that every agreement by which anyone is restrained from exercising a lawful profession, trade, or business of any kind, is to that extent void: So that everyone can be reminded that malaysia protects the people's right to work for a competitors if they paid a better salary As for the job itself; in Malaysia, 3 expect to be an data analyst as well as a data scientist 1 simultaneously: You would need to handle visualizations for reporting, and build models and storytell why that model is good for the 1 business: Basically having 2 roles at once_ Fresh Food Manager Retail ) Salary MYR 7500-8500 gross plus incentives) Experience 2-3years Qualifications Diploma in Culinary Male Malay 30yrs old 3 Location Sarawak Im currently working with a retail company which have 17 supermarkets across East Malaysia and on our way to open two more during 4th quarter 8 of this year: This is definitely a different field to what i'm used to but SO far SO good. That said of course it's not all rainbows and sunshines. There's a lot of stress and pressure but believe that comes with the job. Since been working here, believe have learned a lot and still learning to be better as the days go 1 by. Although from time to time, find myself in a dilemma, whether to keep climbing the ladder and expose myself more to grow my career in this field which could also be rewarding or either just to go bananas and start my own business which is in F&B where believe my passion recide. being i've Government officer (Grade 41)_ 25, Malay; Male. 2 years into the job. One of the major cities in Sarawak Master Degree (engineering background) Bax3 29k (+ allowance total 1 J Annual increment around RM225.00. 25 days of annual leave. Good work-life balance. Flexible working hours policy Now civil servants can choose to 1 arrive at work between 7.30-9.O0am and leave from work at 4.30-6.0Opm: Project Management Executive MNC factory at northern region: Male, 28 years old, Degree in Masscomm: SioaarRM3.6k basic, no 1 Experience: 3.5 years in customer service (CS) field, jump into project management in January 2022. J Work never been easy during pandemic, lost my job as CS with atleast good pay for me. Can 1 around 4.5k easily during CS if doing OT. After lost my job, unemployed for 1 month and this new position: Love this new job because can explore new things and issue every 8 As for now; this job is ok and work life balance type. Supportive boss and colleagues as well: get get day: Customer Service, Mobile Electronic Ipoh, Perak Male, 26, Chinese Worerifeg houalmnoshoursdsy 1 6days/week J Current salary RM2,400 RM3,000 (including KPI min: RM 250, max RM 900; basic salary RM2,150) Mobile phone company with a brand coming from China: Workload is stressful at times due 1 to the different nature of problems and types of customer but that's to be expected when first stepped into the job_ However; one of the downside it can be mentally draining: Besides the long working hours, there will be tons of ppl asking you about your product and if there is any production issue, your name is on the line. Imagine all the bosses tagging your name for updates: 1 think people needs to know it TAKES TIME to troubleshoot and find the root cause. would say this is the most daunting part: And it drains me for being the bridge for technical team and biz operations: Sometimes, motivate myself with "fake it till you made it" Not faking 1 my knowledge; but faking my smile. Like there are times i felt like crying innerly due to all the questioning, but would still need to answer calmly and look at the person in the eyes. If you have the confidence, people would buy U easily: CAPTAIN CHIEF ENGINEER CHIEF OFFICER SECOND ENGINEER OILER BOSUN THIRD ENGINEER ELECTRONIC SECOND OFFICER CATERING GREA SER OFFICER ELECTRICAL PUMPMAN ENGINEER CHIEF STEWARD JUNIOR RATING ABLE SEAMAN FOURTH ENGINEER THIRD OFFICER ORDINARY SEAMAN JUNIOR ENGINEER ELECTRICAL DECK CADET COOK CADET STEWARD ENGINE CADET Job: Senior Analyst, IT Industry: Insurance MNC Salary pretax: RM8.5k 1 About me: 29, Male; Melayu, KL, 5 years exp @malaysianpaygap Salary History (Basic Salary): Telco RMIk (intern) Telco RM2.7k (laid off) 1 Finance RM3.3k (laid off) 22% IT RMAk (resigned) 21% Creative RMS.Sk (resigned) 37% Insurance RM8.5k (current) 54% People in any background can be a procurement executive, be it Marketing, IT, and especially engineering; U dont necessarily have to be an engineer: But normally based on my experience, only oil 8 and gas operators in Malaysia will pay good salary for procurement because the workload is crazy, having to juggle with Millions ringgit worth of tenders and complicated processes. 1) try to land a job with 0&g operators like petronas; shell, 1 sapora,etc Cooglebpstroleemsol arrangement contractor (PAC)) To as many experience as yoU can: Just that, these companies normally only hire experienced people who are well versed of PTCAM (google it!). heard Group Procurement petronas started hiring fresh grad after so many years, look for itl  gain It was then realised that there's a gigantic market out there hiring for CS and helpdesk agents for a different language; but with a lot higher salaries than a local language agent: have self learned Japanese for a long time, though not super proficient but serviceable. then registered for the JLPT N2 test, scored it, and used it to 1 secure my 3rd job  My 3rd job I secured a position as IT helpdesk in a MNC's shared service team servicing Japanese users. My Dental assistant, Cheras,Rm14O0 Female,19,Chinese No experience in this field,but I'm a science stream student anorkizshodrysiclude weekend) 1 My job is to answer phone calls, handle every patients' payment, arrange patients appointment for doctors, cleaning all dental instruments, mop&sweep and clean the toilet everyday(the dlerangngtotvieas iegentioned 1 At first;, it was abit tough for me to work in this clinic, as start from nothing: i used to my work ady" Now, Hi. Town Planner 31, Malay; M 5 year Johor Bahru 8 Degree Town Planning; Master 1 Planning Current Salary : RM24O0 Tboughlanning is like politic: The 1 senior doesn't give way and chances to young town planner: Thank you: Im urged to share about this because realise that there are many young chefs who don't know where to begin and what to look for in their job. Many chefs begin in the wrong place and it killed their passion: If you're keen to 8 become a chef; note that it is also just a regular job where your employer must respect your need, boundaries and not make you overwork without a proper amount of pay and benefits. @malaysianpaygap 1 To be honest, out of all the chefs vacancy out there, only a few is really looking for a "chef" Most of them only need a labour to do the cooking, which makes a huge difference. Unless you don't really care, the boss telling you what to do from head to toe can again, kill your passion. Behaviour Therapist (ABA Therapy) Workng w children w Autism Indian, Female Preegrace 1 6 years exp 1 RM 4k 5k depends on how many hours we work monthly: Freelance therapist earns way more than centre based. When working W centre based 7 they expect us to do more than pay uS very unreasonable demands, politics in promotion Pay they experience: My salary as Commis chef is considered very high as the industry usually only pay around RMZ.Ik RM2.3k but also depend on the kind of restaurant you join and your 8 location. Usually cafe in the city will have the highest pay whereas retail stores in the malll branded restaurants will have the lowest. @malaysianpaygap Being a chef is a no easy job, we have 1 the least holidays at the weirdest time of the year: We also have crazy long working hours. However we shouldn't normalise that as there are company that have a more humane working hour and environment. NEED YOUR Hi all, got a quick question would like your professional advice to this. I've been working in a job for a short while and wasn't given a job scope for my job. The title given to me and the job scope wasn't what was expecting, was more tasks and been handling more projects than what thought it would be: Would like your kind advice for the situation am in now; whether or not will be able to report to Malaysia labour office for the difference of what the job scope supposed to be for the title I'm holding and the actual job scopes I'm working for at the moment? Appreciate your replies. Thanks Advice_. given You get to travel to other international site depending on the business needs The work trip allowances are quite good. 1 do believe im a great asset to the team, but also believe everyone is replaceable. The range for my current position is about 4-5.5k monthly, so | guess Im fairly (?) Currently upskilling myself on project management; and interested to learn more about fintech: Would 1 appreciate if anyone can recommend where can start paid Oxford Secondary School Teacher Indian,25yrs old Male Basic RM 2000 Transport Allowance given around RM 500(as travel 45mins daily) Edu: Bachelor of Mathematics Education Work 3yrs as tutor Ist job in a school 1 The teachers are overworked but 1 underpaid: Moreover; apart from the 8hrs school time, the workload is also affecting our ME time at home Too many paperworks to be settled,since it's private international school: AIl the time infront the laptop, which is not actually a teacher's job_ Exp: Started as IT call center agent with rm25o0 basic (2006). Climb the ladder to be service desk lead, incident manager; service improvement specialist, CSI manager; Service Manager; Governance Manager; and now Product Owner on Data Management for UK based bank: 0 Experience comes first, money will 1 follow: rarely say no when the 0 boss ask me to do something extra and new: take it as opportunity to enrich my knowledge, experience, and portfolio It added value to my marketability in job search: 1 update my CV every 3 mths, if cant; means have not achieve anything for the past 3 mths. | go to interview when am not looking: When you got nothing to lose, you are less nervous and your chances to get the offer is higher: Hi Id like to share my experience with all of 7 1 IolusRegion account manager 38 / Thai Female Work Experience: 15 years Salary: 25,0O0RM (excluded 13th month salary and annual bonus 1 1 month)laysianpaygap My company is TOP1O largest 1 Fove very ihugeicutucatadasey adev research facilities here are superb. you: key Never stop learning and upskill yourself: treat every project success and failure, every team member (both the ones and the not so 0 ones) , every difficult client as carriers of life lessons: Once you recognize every situation as a learning opportunity; you'Il be more motivated to pick up that "lesson/skill". This improved my soft skills at work tremendously; and do agree with the sovingillsgret sustqat pooroteon -b56 1 da mlundpsaonwno 1 doesn't mind working more scopes or carry more responsibilities: But this is possible because my company and boss always remember to show their appreciation financially as well as always there to support my climb up the corporate ladder: good good get get Let me elaborate: After graduation worked as a desk side IT support for a local hospital for RM18O0 (1600+200 on call allowance) _ It was rather brutal as had to be on call 24/7 in case emergency happens, so brutal that couldn't stand a year and left. @malaysianpaygap My second job worked for a local software firm as customer support: 1 My initial pay was RM3OOO and my final paycheque was RM35OO. | stayed there for almost 3 years, 1 didn't have any complaint for that job but really just feel stagnated, like wasn't feeling like I'm getting anywhere, so / tried looking out again. No travel; bonus or other allowances. Must able to cover other branches. Incentives based on product we sell, less than RM 50 per month: Incentives based on salesl month hard to achieve as 1 it's an independent pharmacy: Few other competitive chain Phanoiagiee oearow others in this 7 field are getting Would like to know if the paylworkload is fair?. Also, really appreciate to hear others advice on the viability of masters in pharmacy practice in todays market: Thank you paid. 2 Job: Head Corporate Development Company: One of the established cryptolweb3 MNCs Salary: RM43,110 1 bucptanninglto go otea(tigieal in nomad adventure in the next year or so) Experience: 10+ years (financial industry; fintech, and cryptolweb3) 8 33, Chinese, Male 2 KL, Malaysia is cheap. So they can 8 afford to pay US average of usd4k per person (rm16k) if in their home country (us/uk) , average salary would be usd 6k- usd1Ok And malaysian can do better job what? Increment yearly is minimum of 6% (about Ik) , so far company never fails to give increment: Bonus 1 foounch OOnthorkerert hogooand flexible working time. Work is quite challenging with 90% dealing with foreigners in uk,us, middle east & africa: COUNTING THE DAYS # #m WIw #H KTl #n YH Mi W 1 Wh W I W # ##H K 4 ant M ON BOARD COTn 1 The one photo best to describe the life onboard: 1 was quite lucky landed as a Project Manager after resigned from the 1 BPO. From there , had the best learning ground in e-commerce; for me to explore new divisions and handle project end 2 end: You to know every single process and it turns you to be the SME for the product you launched: After 1.5 years, had role switch to Product 1 fully and also to lead the product team: get get Voung LAWNERS MOVEMENT (how young lawyers in Malaysia are fighting for minimum allowance for pupilage) So recently there were some major changes made within the company which causes mass resignations especially for staffs that have been 1 serving the company for quite a long time. Company kept having constant changes with no clear direction provided. Everyday we're chasing hard for sales but with limited manpower: currently im very happy with my job 1 but according to my contract; only have less than a year now somehow feel that sooner or later company will no longer need my service. @malaysianpaygap SOOOOO, would like to make early preparation: does anyone know if other GLC or MNC or any company 1 will offer min RM4,000 salary for customer service, service desk agent,; customer support position? Patient: Very tired of the toxic environment; is there anything that we can do to try and 3 improve the situation? Define the exact situations and assess if they are truly toxic, or caused by the following possibilities: Personality differences Communication style differences Lack of certain skills such as managing expectations, communication, productivity skills etc, creating negative feelings which turns into a vicious cycle Is it safe to change jobs ahead of a recession? Mpg PANTRY TALK [Contribution] am a multi-skilled marketer that can work under stress (I've learned a lot from my previous start-up.) ~Digital Marketing Skills and Updated Knowledge ~Social Media Management ~Data Analytics ~Automation tools knowledge ~Graphic Design ~SEO ~Photography ~Website Development -Content Curation  ~Advertising ~Leadership ~Strategic Thinking and Planning ~Communication Skills ~Research -Time Management am so confused whether should stay in my comfort zone and enjoy my 1 current benefits for now OR; should something new with a lower for the sake of my mental health Not every calls we received is so bad, but one rude client definitely can ruin my beautiful day: (If you also working in call center; for sure yoU can understand what am trying to say 1 hehe) @malaysianpaygap Btw guys, am a fluent mandarin speaker Feel free to share, thank you in advance. 3 paid try Quality Control Microbiologist (senior) Pharmaceutical manufacturing facility 38, Indian Female Started working since 2008 0xKedah BSc Biotechnology Hons 1 Sa250-contsoctfaedranloavance I month salary bonus + OT rate of rm15 per hour work extra hours to mark up my salary to RM3OOO. only work for 2 companies so here are my pay breakdowns: Company A (3 years): Ik (Intern), 2.5k (Full-time) , 3k, 1 4.3k Company B (2 years+): 5.5k, 7.5k, 1k (current) S That's all guess. Remember; always looking for a second source of income_ far, 4k, 4. Make no compromises: Don't settle. A bad deal can be worse than no deal: What's stopping me is_ My self confidence think no one wants to hire me except this company as i have nothing to offer to them Not confident enough Afraid of unable to land in another job Worry that I will lost everything Realize that confidence is a skill, to learn: WELL, THERE GcES AWNoTHER Skkl TEACHER Wib MAKES I0 MILLION BKs A YEAR_ MEANWHiLE 1 IM WoRKING MK BuTT OFF PAYING FRoFESSio UL Hochs AND ICAN BARELY PAY RENT . le& Iu3 In another universe. In-house Videographer/Editor + Freelance Photographer/Editor 25, Chinese; M 6 yearst 1 Cuert menmly heone RM4SX (before deductions, full time job) + ~RM2-8k (occasional freelance work) The great thing about creative work in this era of digital content is that 1 eeecs_digdi conteary Bu inaevicicay part is making yourself stand-out without selling yourself short: Job position: Anti Money 3 Laundering Specialist Gender: Female Job experience: < 1year 1 Industry: Banking 1 Location: KL Salary: rm 3300 (havent exclude 1 epf etc) Qualification: Degree Long working hours, end job at aroeken8-Oom, frequent 1 Right after layoff; actually wanted to find jobs in SG still (cause of that sweet SGD) but after hearing my classmate earning around RMSk, decided to come back to Malaysia Of course SG is better in alot of aspects; better pay for the same 1 work, lower cost and more buying power; but have no family in SG so thorough the 3 months there, was very lonely and basically just work eat and sleep. At least back in Malaysia now I'm able to meet up 1 with friends and go shopping in the weekend with my family: Funny thing though is now I'm working hybrid mode, most of my 2 team is based in SG. So Im just getting pay in MYR while having the same job scope as my colleague in SG. living must admit; at the age of 32 getting this much pay with this many job scopes is definitely making me feel more and more discouraged to work because feel like i am being squeezed out of might but at the end of the i'm 1 exilausterinancony aeabaility to even put aside my own savings since everything now is getting more expensive. my day Lab technician (Microbiology) 27, Malay, Female 4 years till 2022 Kedah Degree in Microbiology RM2OOO Started my first job with only 1.4k 6 salary despite graduated with degree from one of research university in Malaysia. Increment 1 every year is limited to RM1OO. 4 thought it was the company's tradition to give a very low pay to 1 the graduate of the same field, but turns out some people in Selangor only paid 1.8k for the same role_ Malaysia need to reinforce a basic minimum salary according to qualification: Or giving an increment after probation period ends is the least could do: But nope. got they work for an MNC as the only regional representative: Work life balance on workdays is not great many work meetings after hours due to online meetings with clients in different time zones: But the 8 company is flexible about working hours so | can start later if stayed up the night before 0 (continued) Advice to other creatives: to after gainiegiooaeegperaenoles  They're mostly advertised on Linkedln: Besides the pay, you' l also good exposure to clients and colleagues from different countries which will enrich your portfoliolexperience. So far have to work around the clock and learn different countries' cultures but it's worth it. 3 try get With the exception of specialist doctors or consultants, believe hospital healthcare professionals in Malaysia are underpaid in comparison to other industries_ seen hospitals offer 6.5k for a Hospital Pharmacy Manager position: For the workload and pressure that this position entails, you would expect a higher salary: 0 empatfy and/desire sorheq or 7 serve others, | strongly advise yoU to avoid any hospital jobs that require you to interact with patients. The pay will most likely be insufficient to compensate for the amount of effort required: You will almost certainly feel underappreciated and underpaid at some point; which will make you unhappy: I've You will always see job posting from this company because not many teachers who are used to KPI and corporate style working environment; hence they @malaysianpaygap TBH, Ilove working with the students here it gives me so much joy and 1 fulfillment to see them improve at the end of the day: However; the program is costly, the director promises that the child will change, thus the parents will chase after the teachers if the child did not show any progress. It's such a big pressure on the teachers: On top of that; all your reports must be submitted correctly and on time if not, it does take a hit to your KPI too: quit. Hi MPG , 1 mharet researchkictenifgenctioolebout 1 would like to share a glimpse of this field of work as a sound career option for those looking to exit consulting/ market research/marketing functions: @malaysianpaygap Job, industry; salary pre-tax: Regional Market Research/ Market Intel Manager, Medical Devices, Total SS16k/mo excluding employer CPF V Locmon shgmpore Renots Gender; age, race: Female, 28, Malaysian Chinese Digyta olansfolayatzor ( Chieesest 1 Male 9+ years experience Kuala Lumpur Bachelors in E&E Engineering ] Current Salary: RM21,0O0 SweahecGotcem?doest hrougarout 1 by starting in the consulting space in early years. Willingness to do beyoac aolorgbscowereableriog 1 bring measurable impact to the company: Be bold in demanding what you think you're worth from the company: Director 32 Male Chinese 9 years Bachelors 5-10k USD depending on the sales current Covid went down to 1 1-2k Penang working salary is pretty 1 bak bachelrbachetorg & around 1.8k on wards. | don't earn in Malaysia, but you can a company overseas and bring back money tax free if you know your 1 The way to earn is to skip taxation: If you know your way around taxes that's the way yoU extra bucks for your money: Malaysia salary vs the cost of living is still bearable but compare to other countries it's pretty shit: Advice it's better to earn other currencies than MYR as it really not stable. All the best! 2k, get way: get Occupation Production Senior Executive Company MNC 1 QioaliiGatialayDialoma Mechanical Engineering Working Experience 12 years Starting Basic RM1SOO 2011 ) Current Basic RM42OO 2022 Location : Selangor As my wife are resigning since pandemic outbreak, im am the one and only breadwinner in my family: It 1 Selangoro hopeittan tSbearerin salary in future if got the promotion for Asst Manager or Manager: such get Geophysicist; Oil & Gas (Contractor) 25, Chinese, Male Fresh graduate, had convocation Master's degree in Geophysics RMSOOO Geophysicist; Oil & Gas (Contractor) 2 27, Chinese, Male 1 Phihr Eadineering 9 RM5SOO 8 Engineer; Oil & Gas (Client) 26, Malay; Female Fresh graduate Master's degree in Engineering RM45O0 with RMSOO increment after probation Pharma sales role is NOT just hitting sales target for drugs includes other kpi like workshops, role play; assessments, marketing activites, sales reports and meetings On top of that; the customers are 1 healthcare professionals which can often be_ Difficult (iykyk). You need to compete the time with patients and the 5729138 sales rep_ ] Many because of the flexibility & earning potential: However; 8 these few years have observed more restructuring and outsourcing more companies cut headcounts and require reps to cover central + outstation (eg Jbl 6 east coast/Perak). Almost bullying the industry and staffs really: | am frustrated but at the same time feeling helpless of my next steps: 0 stay Mill Engineer; Palm Oil, ~RMAklmth Selangor Male, 26, Chinese BEng (Mechanical) , 2-3 years 1 This is my first company since graduated: Increment history: 2020: RM3k 2021: RM3.Sk 2022: RM4k 1 Annual bonus ~ 6-8 mths (mainly due to high Crude Palm Oil price during the time period) Im not here to complain about the 1 company: The company has really high standards and feel privileged to be accepted to work as an intern in this company: But what want to say with this post is DO NOT just go into a job just because you want the experience and money: Don't be like me as regret working in this company 1 because was too stupid to think of the bigger things @malaysianpaygap B2 Licensed Aircraft Engineer 29 Male Malay 5 years experience CAAM B2 AMEL RMZk Basic RM4k Type Allowance (RMZk per type allowance) RMIk Other Allowance 1 Aircraft maintenance engineering is pretty rewarding with the right company and luck. The industry is J getting very saturated as training schools are appearing like mushrooms: Chances are you will only be employed as a technician even after holding a license. Unless you hold the type ratings that the company want: This industry will adyireryeverehave Tlet patpatience 1 success isn't the same as your peers with a degree. But when you get there, you will start earning more than your peers. Don't be afraid to try difference parts of the industry: Airlines is not the only place you can work: The cons to in-house design is that we usually dont have a lot of room for creativity: I'm the kind of person who's doing the same thing every 1 as long as I'm being compensated fairly so it's cool. Besides, can always unleash my creative side outside of work advice to you guys if you feel like quitting your shitty agency: DO IT! 1 Preferably try your best to stay for 1 year but if you can't; just get out of there. Don" t ever sell your soul to any company: Get the experience and find a job that gives you the work-life balance you need. Also jumping companies is the easiest way when youre young to get a better salary: 1 plan on staying here for a bit though as do see potential for growth! okay day My Change of government changed all that due to austerity measures 1 and not also factoring the pandemic. I've recently made a career change to one of the big four consulting firms and got a tidy ] 30% bump. Taking into 3 consideration if had been able a 10% increment every year wouldn't even bring me close to my current pay compensation: 1 Word of advise? Don't be loyall Be bold, career changes are possiblel get Hob Supply Chain Pharmacist 2 (Pharma Manufactury + Distribution) Salary: 6k pre deduction F; 27, Indian @malaysianpaygap 3 years in Gomen, left because didnt 1 get Tetap. Now almost 2 years in this company: Its considered an SME but it is a large company: Increment: 5-10% depending on how often you take AL irregardless of Bomparyaprof ore tonvearregardless 1 of company profit for the year Senior Test Engineer; Micron Memory Malaysia 30, M 6.5 years Penang Bachelors degree in Electrical 0 Engineering 1 RM7200 (before tax and deduction) Moved back from Singapore 1 year 0 ago (was earning SGD5145). Felt underpaid here as an engineer: Work life balance in Malaysia is better but not able to save much money due to higher expenses here and weak currency: Choose the right work environment Every company has a different culture with different values: Identify this quickly when X you start a new role (or during interview) and check whether it is in line with your work style, development and values: If not, your efforts will not be ] appreciated and your growth will be stunted. 1 If you're serious about earning well; be brutally honest about whether you're maximizing your strengths and learning potential. Get out of the complainingl complacent mindset and throw 3 yourself to the deep end of the pool,; most of the time come out alive. Then the pay will eventually follow: you'Il Hi therel Just thought of sharing my two cents with anyone who might be struggling at finding their career direction: The current economic climate may be a little bleak, but there are still opportunities out there (some really good ones in fact) so don't give up or settle if you feel like you deserve something better! That said, no one can help 1 you if you don t put in the effort to try and showcase your best self: Also, I want to emphasize that you don't need to join big names to be successful or to earn a pay: You'd be surprised how some SMEs are way more generous! Provided that the SME isn't Malaysian based though; like my current employer that's headquartered outside of Asia with a much stronger currency: good Working OT For FREE? Hi MPG , need some advices from other well-experienced engineers (on whether is it true that engineers are not allowed to get OT pay?) recently started as a fresh graduate for new engineering job in a local manufacturing company (as long as it's not MNC) from this June onwards. 2 days ag0, was being told by the engineering manager that my senior engineer and have to work during factory shutdown because of next week's audit preparation for the customers, while other employees no need to work during company shutdown. aboagerhespecially) is very flexible 1 Most of my colleagues and team members are very senior with 6-12 years (or even more) of experience and can see the reason why they are being loyal. I'm most likely do the same as well 8 My first job in August 2018 after graduate as a cave tour guide with salary of RM2OOO/month & due to company closure moved to second job on Feb 2019 as IT helpdesk with salary RM2850. 1 Chindian-MaLAYSiAN Working in Hey MPP; I left Malaysia in August 2019 to start working as a teacher in China. My first school was a bilingual private school running the International Baccalaureate and A Level programmes. They me double what my last employer me in Malaysia, plus housing and travel allowance_ My second school was also a private bilingual school, but linked to a prestigious British school. The pay then was 35k RMB, almost three times what my last Malaysian salary was:  paid paid Chindian-MaLAYSiAN Working (N Every qualification of mine had to be authenticated by a solicitor and notary in the UK as my degrees are from there and then legalized by the China Visa Application Centre. My CV had to be rewritten to adhere to the Chinese template; and I had to produce an incredible amount of paperwork to prove I'm experienced and qualified: Job: Authorization and Fraud monitoring Job title: Executive Industry: banking Location: KL  Gender: Male Race: Malay Age: 28 2 Company: vendor to a bank in Malaysia (public listed company) Qualification: Diploma 2 Starting salary: RM18O0 (2018) Last salary: RM1822 (2022) Bonus: in your dream Working hour: 12 hours a (3 2 shift) This company doesn't appreciate authorisers. Thankfully i got out from that company and hoping all my friends also a better job that pay a decent salary, Ameen: day got derive job satisfaction from interacting with my fellow students who are adorable and active. Witnessing their growth; both physically and intellectually; is a rewarding experience I'm motivated to go to work every 2 knowing that am able to make an impact in their studies and childhood: The ever changing curriculum syllabi and examination format keep me engaged and challenge me to strive for excellence. day Most of the time, my gigs come from repeat corporate clients; so | don't do 1 canvassing and reaching out to new prospective clients, and just generally do the jobs given by these few clients: Ido second shooter for some of my c6 friends who are also doing freelance, but I'm not in contact with the client for this_ @malaysianpaygap In regards to the sharing from the 6th of March from the in-house photographer; would agree that in 7 imporcanstrxs sordeone ouhb is notoriously bad for updating his portfolio, all of my jobs come from word of mouth and referrals: Project Engineer; MNC company, Bachelors Degree in Civil in USNGaMaaykl Salary 1 RM42OO, 3 year experience 1 had high hopes of landing a decent job when came back to MY. But immediately realized construction industry is a sham beptoiT,henaavecacustrlesiqueoto 1 dinosaurs earning 20-30 times we'd earn and with zero Eng Working OT TOR FREE? Only the engineering manager; senior manager and worked during company shutdown And the day before company shutdown, was told by manager that | was approved by one of VPs to work during company shutdown, due to return to work to support the project for customers. know that am grateful that the manager "belanja" us for lunch and a coffee during company shutdown; but just that don't want to repeat the history from previous online jobs for multiple NFT projects to work for free. Benefits that got: A) ESD Attire B) Medical Consultation from certain lists of clinics However; the industry is toxic. It preys on the young and good looking: You have to be born with it. You either have the looks and height or you don't: Some girls for ages and keep getting rejected 3 while trying for their "dream job" But the reality is, have to deal J with as$h0l3 pax all the time on a daily basis, you have to clean toilets, serve food, catcalled, the "HELLO HELLO" treatment like they're calling someone at the 2 mamak: know la you very glam dapat fly but we're also human who's looking for our next rice bowl: try you get get Business process manager; MNC X in KL 29, Chinese, Female 8 years working experience ACCA member ~Basic 15k, 18k including 1 allowances & bonus Started my career in big 4 1 consulting firms with 2.8k salary: Left to industry to take better care of physicallmental health: Now in a MNC global role and work life balance is good here, other than the occasional evening meetings 3 with other regions. Companv PERKS 0F CoinGecko USDSOO learning allowance per annum (books, online courses) RMI,800/quarter on wfh meals (cafetonline food delivery) Company laptop: choose between Macbook of Dell PC Remote work flexibility, CoinGecko premium discounts AL per annum: 22 days Maternity leave 60 days; paternity 5 days Marriage , congratulations you get 3 days off AIA: Insured for RM3OOk, up to RMIOOO outpatient These perks applicable to full-time employees only; contract workers have different sets Disclaimer: This info is shared by multiple community members of MalaysianPAYGAP for the "Ultimate List of Companies in Malaysia with good Perks" in 2022, Please further fact-check with Coingekco for your perusal; WG late your employer sends you for type training the same year; that will cost another few months: Getting them endorsed in your license another 6 becohe Gretting the crpva/ to 1 another few months Asi said, yoU need alot of patience. In the J meantime you will be working as a technician: Technicians are super low: Alot are being paid minimum wage_ Market is super saturated especially now after covid, alot of experienced workers seereacheancewcomers won"t 1 ~cost of getting a license is high: RM12Ok-150k ~hazardous working environment paid got Managers and partners at EA despcseavokhe; toleggusend 1 wanted to switch to commercial or other industry instead of audit. J NoW; |am earning better and promised a minimum 2.5 month bonus no matter perform or not while in EA, poor bonus n still have to be spilt to half-yearly payment to prevent turnover: 1 Benefits Motorcycle provided with free petrol: 24 days AL Quarters are provided Utility bill free Medical can claim: 1 Work 5.5 days/5 per week (alternate) Working hours normally 7am-Zpm (~2 hours rest) , can go beyond that if machinery breakdown: Handle shipment of CPO & PK 1 Need to handle sustainability too since RSPO, MSPO, ISCC certified:. Lots of paperwork, workers' welfare, environmental issues need to handle.  Leading >50 employees days By now; other than my own work, 2 have also taken on the workload of 2 other people that have resigned: Its my fault also for not taking a stand against this. Burnout is an understatement: know have underlying anxiety and had it under 1 the wraps previously through lifestyle (exercise, meditation, and clean eating) but now, my health has taken a dive. 1 do feel anxious abt work and meeting deadlines and dealing with problems at work: coworkers help from time to time but theyre also bggeaveows itits frornecoupom That 1 includes MCs as well: @malaysianpaygap My Job SEO Specialist Industry Brand and Marketing Self 29, Malay; Male 5 Years Selangor Diploma RM 6.7K incl: benefits 8 Ist Job 2017, web admin, SME, 1 RM 1.8K 2nd Job 2018, seo exec, SG e- commerce SME, RM 3.5K (offered 3rdy Joorm2ozosseoeneer offer) 1 PHILIPPHINE Startup; RM 4.5K (only 1 month, former boss call back and offer better) 4th Job 2021, seo specialist, MNC Insurance company; RM 5.5K (2 month; former boss call back better offer) Present 2022, seo specialist; SME, RM 6.7K + company shares + house Exp. Graphic Designer; In-House, RM4OOO Fealaleuziundian 1 2 years of Experience prior to joining The company has about 100 or so people in KL and we have branches overseas The HQ is in Germany: Work mostly consists of preparing digital 1 advertising work for the company's events: F've been here for about a month or sO and I'm really enjoying it so far due to its laidback nature. Hours are flexible and most people here have been here for a long time which is a good sign. 1 Male Nurse/Endoscopy trained GIA 32, Male 11 years in Nursing included 3years diploma in Nursing Science) Private Hospital Dip in Nursing science, Post basic in Endoscopy Nursing Basic Rm21oo Allowance( include diploma allowance and post basic allowance)RM9OO muchoalCatlewducigeneadlstioehow 1 I'm started my job with basic RM15OO and current as stated above there. Although I'm a endoscopy Nurse but im multiple task person in my workplace (Operation Theatre) can scrub (assisting during surgery)for cases, doing GA doing CSSD tasks, can operate autoclave machine,have to fo inventory and ordering medical items for eospisaopy, and certified ISO auditor for 1 So this is what I'm doing for past 8 years and on going process as my job here. There's no proper increments and bonus when appraisal time even Manager gave a good marks but there will be deduction when finalising the appraisal paper by our higher superior Question to other pharma sales 1 is 5k basic really an outrageous goal? Especially if need to cover central + outstation? How to know if the package is fair?? Or is anyone branching out to other industry (sales cause still 8 like the flexibility) ? Appreciate any tips thanks! 8 fashion designer LOv e 1 3 So my advice to other people out there, make your wise decision! Always think 5-10 years ahead! If deceaeto mighteot krducatiere am 1 at now: The reason why decided for this is because don't want to burden parents with the uni fees: come from a lower class family: So uni fees will be a burden in the long term: @malaysianpaygap daily motivation quote is "you're 1 only good as yesterday" so don't stop pushing yourself to be a better you: path my My Summary Working with Fortune Global 500 (MNC) company is the way to go if you are looking for a big pay in your career without highest qualification: Not gonna share so much here, but this is the importance lesson. This type of salary usually will be 90% depends on your working 1 cxueseeneeworkigeteosvyanomi the recommendation due to tremendous and very well records you have done on previous employment/projects Thats why; not only during interview; always do g your best:  This company doesn't have much time to teach you, hence they will only pay the well experience folks to the job done and that's why no freshie among my colleagues. get Senior Software Engineer 37, Indian, Male 10 years work experience Kuala Lumpur Degree in Software Engineering, Sunway University J Gndreversialaey : Riclz Solwonce 7 0 Positives 1) Don't have to pay income tax( independent contractor) 2) Good working environment 3) Great boss and colleagues4) Follow both U.S &nd 1 Malaysian holidays 5) 10% salary increase for each contract renewal period My current company (Sth company) , offered me 3000 as site qs. A year and half later; increment of 200, and with more job scope while other colleagues got increment while maintaining their job scope: did tasks that was 1 supposed to be done by hq staff: even did admin works here_ Confronted my manager; and he wanted to help. But the upper management refuse to discuss: feel like im not compensated fairly, while the hq staff sits down like a queen, with salary way higher than 0 me. 1 still do my job as usual, keep it as professional as i could, ensure that no problem encountered when im in charged: love my job, honestly: And my manager said im good at it. But again, maybe it's unfortunate for me.  got Interior Design (Main Contractor) Director Assistant; Sales executive Kuala Lumpur 4 months of experience in this field Graduate in Bachelor of cconomctio{TARUageozot and 1 Basic: RM35OO/month, no OT, Car allowance, Patrol allowance , J medical allowance_ Commission: RM4OOO-5ooo/ 0 month Last year found my first job after graduate, the boss always say a lot of bullsxxt to brainwash US, 1 making US work a lot for the company but the company paying us decent of money, and when | find out the company doesn't paying our epf and sokso, that time wake up from the brain wash and the job + report to EPF quit Being resourceful, working smart;, staying inquisitive and being comfortable working with data or the 1 lack of it thereof, are some essential 1 factors to grow in this field of work. accepted the offer because it is an organisation have dreamt of working for but they did not have such a role at the time. @malaysianpaygap *sound career option for those looking to exit consulting/ marketing roles: V Taychcosey baseckafyinceroresbne job is 100% remote as are my team members based largely in the US: Production Engineer Selangor Male/23/Chinese RM2,940 Fm currently a production engineer in a manufacturing factory, and this is my first job after graduated from orzozsityntistowte tartiog gie early 1 RM28O0 and increased by 5% after January this year: Since factory plants are operating running 24/7, sO as an engineer to prepare mentally for sudden plant issues during off-work period, so can trigger relevant maintenance personnel to tackle the issues ASAP. Besides this, also have to walk around sites to keep looking 1 for areas for improvements, monitor utilities consumptions and manage operators to take care of the factory areas and process. When external audit is around the corner; sometimes even have to assist operators to clean the factory areas due to manpower shortage. got In short; feel that we should work 1 hard to get a chance to work/study overseas to broaden our horizons.   Trust me; in HK you will get to know people from different interesting cultural backgrounds: For example, 1/3 of my classmates are from China- you can notice the 1 difference in the accents from different prefectures. Part Time Waiter/Cashier in fast food restaurant (A&W) Currently going to College 18/Chinese Worked in Subang Jaya (2months) 4 Rate: RMZ That was my first job after graduating from high school in Dec 2021. While working there, to learn a lot of work and life ] experiences. 7 The colleagues there were amiable, managers are willing to teach too. However; the workload during work is very heavy: You do not to have amy break times during peak hours, and it is our 1 nightmare during Public holidays/ Weekends as there is no OT during public holidays (except for Agong, birthday; State ruler birthday) , and our workload increases significantly during these festive seasons. Pay got get Cadet (intern) , Shipping: 21, Chinese, Male 8 months Trading worldwide Diploma in Nautical Sciences Basic Salary: 744USD 1 Commission from store aboard vessel and odd jobs like cargo 3 hold cleaning averages around I500USD for the past 8 months including basic salary: Very demanding job. Worked 17 to 18 hours some days in port but working hours does not reflect that as it must comply with the International Labour Organisation: ended up in the PIP because the upper management thought my performance last year did not meet expectation since was mentally ill 1 and was on medical leave for a month (got into the Psych ward due to su*cidal ideations). fought and went to meetings after meetings with different management people to prove that there were NO ISSUES with my 1 thosk and direc jsypenvonunaeei fieat was sick. presented them with my medical report and even letter from my clinical psychologist (to vouch that am discipline at working on my 1 upepea hgalt did-fteiveg ,iR ahese and proceeded to not change my performance in the system: Hence, the zero increment & bonus. @malaysianpaygap show meyour pay history tell you how much you worth now pay transparency advocate Been here for six months + and my 3 mental health is slowly restoring: None of that work family bullshit: team work hard together but all of uS are able to separate work from our personal lives. People are more 0 forgiving and since we provide internal support; we know what is really urgent and what isn't. Ido miss the camaraderie between practicing lawyers but the price to pay is too high (having to work together everyday till late night). 1 My UX Designer; Fintech 28, Chinese, Male 5 years+ Selangor Bachelor's Degree (Comp. Science) RMIOk 1 My starting pay was RM2.Sk (2016) as a fresh grad, would say my pay is a lot now; but still think can earn more. One good way is to start taking freelance works, but do it outside your 9-5 job of course. Why S 1 do it? Out of fear of not having enough money in coming years. have been doing it since my first pay check  What'$ stopping me is_. Lacking of skill/ knowledge My experience I guess: Will only have 1 year this April: Still praying hard thol Feeling too overwhelmed from combo of work and life that just want to rest during my spare time Knowing the first few years after is normally underpaid then only jump to big company in the future Being true to yourself and the employer that, growth takes time. grad 6 When the other side speaks, maintain eye contact and them your undivided attention throughout. Many people simply want to feel as though their point of view has been heard and understood: This will significantly strengthen any counterpoints you bring up later. give Private Secondary School Teacher 24, Chinese , Female Degree holder with <1 year experience (non teaching background) KK, Sabah 1 Sotarz.8k4k basic (+ allowance 1 Many school holidays for sure (paid holiday) . Not stressful at all compared to my previous internship experience in bank). Annual increment about RM1OO - RM12O_ How Much T0 NeGotiate? After the three-month probation period; | am planning to negotiate my salary and position title with the director: | want to ensure mine is fairly compensated for my dedication: That's where need your help What salary range or position title do you think would be reasonable for me?  Spill More TEA Uh-oh: That did not go down well with a group of infuriated young lawyers. Enough is enough. A couple of them rallied lawyers to pass a motion at the Bar AGM demanding that students be paid a minimum allowance that corresponded to national standards. They even went on a road trip around the Peninsula to deliver a petition urging lawyers to support the minimum allowancel PLSI Job: Customer service 1 SaasyrpreTax: RMA,OOO + RM12O allowance Location: KL Gender; age, race: Male, 26, Malay Qualification: Bachelor in Accounting Years of experience: 2 and a half year @malaysianpaygap 1 Im working with one of the GLC in Malaysia which parent company recorded revenue of RM3XX billion. 99 WHAT % OF  INCREMENT DO VOU USUALLY RECEIVE AT YOUR NEW JOB? WHATS THE LARCEST % YOU EVER SAW ? Pantry Talk Let's discuss! e 9 Position : Safety & Health Officer 9 (DOSH registered) Industry : 1 Egperiehce at least 3 years 1 Salary = : RM7.25k 1 Any Previously; ran a small taco stand: From 2018- 2019, it was going well until covid took place and I'm grateful enough to be offered this current job just before pandemic hits It was a blessing in disguise as didn't even 3 applied for it: That offer happened while i was selling my tacos during an event Before that, was working in milk production factory for a year after being a Chef for 8years: took the decision to work in a factory as i was 8 feeling burnt out working in kitchens and was just looking for a menial job with less stress. That helped me lot into deciding what wanna do next in my career: Don't get me wrong still love working in kitchen and cook but i'm gonna make sure the next time do it, it will be in my wn restaurant: 1 believe it's important sometimes to take a few steps back in order for you to take few big gallops a head: haven't made it to the yet nor am close to it but i also believe 'being at the top' for everyone is different: You do you top Data Scientist, e-wallet company 25, Malay; Male 2 years KL Bachelors Salary: RM4,600 including 2 allowance, average 2-3mo bonus 1 Thoughts: As a data scientist think /'m being underpaid as think it should be around rm5-6k Are my 1 thoughts correct? The workload is also more than what the position should entail as well: Not only do build models and analyse data, but also am in charge building data pipelines, what Data Engineers are supposed to do. Should switch jobs? 1 5 SDnEF _ chmt Sa SAARD Aad Jshua DOriI ORDINART EE STEWAAD Et Chiltero The hierarchy in merchant vessel 1 same for all: Left side is for Engineering, right side is for Nautical study: 1 started as a Service Desk Agent back in 2018 and struggled to this first job. After an internship, | was out of a 1 job for 8 months, so just grabbed whatever offer came to me. 1 got laid off twice, which motivated me to aim for a higher salary in a stable, big company: | will make sure to secure at least a 20% increment: Moreover; if laid off again, having a good salary figure will help me negotiate for the 0 next job, save more for rainy days, and enhance my resume with a reputable company: @malaysianpaygap get get Iam also grateful that the company provides leadership opportunity where most of the leads are under 30s. truly gained my social emotional intelligence and found what am passionate about: Then, landed with a better offer and similar role in fintech company now: 1 Iam still adapting to new company as it is still in a start up phase, not as structural, but the pace is not as hectic as before_ get to do my own learning nowadays: If you are looking for learning ground for product managers, can 1 join start up or new division in the company: You to do a lot, maybe triple-hatted: All these efforts will be paid off one If you feel tired about your current job, just go scroll on Linkedln and apply job. You never know what comes next. get day: Salary progression basic: 2020 RM25g0 (fresh grad) 1 2021 RM3OOO 2022 RM3250 2022 RM36O0 (new job) 1 Fm not sure whether received reasonable pay or not with zero experience in project management 1 field: But i'm quite satisfied with this salary since based at northern region: Your thought? 8 Salary wise is kinda disappointing: KPI format changes average once or twice every year (getting more confusing and irrelevant each year) , which requires us to change our handling method everytime. Calculation chart Islip for KPI were not delivered to us consistently every month: The inconsistency fiaeciat paarnningpersonal 1 ] Workplace recently moved: Parking used to be free but not anymore and no parking allowances was granted: Management team said they're working on it (though it was supposed to be sorted out before the move no?)_ Was told that 0 workload and working method will change soon and might have to take up a bit of sales work. All these without increase on basic salary but instead in KPI (guess because its a variable factor unlike basic salary) . NFT Community Manager California Based Company (Remote) 28 years old 2 months 3 in USDS,ooo/month (RM21,OOO) I've always wanted to work in web3.0 as started getting into NFTs after leaving my banking job at an international bank and 2 ventured out to be a self ertpbowed swactor ([and ertreaneher 7 grateful for this job as the pay is only 1 part of the satisfaction, but doing something you enjoy and love is definitely an even greater feeling: For those looking for a better pay, know many US based companies are jumping on to the NFTIDEFI space and are hiring agersesivelry ever fareigndaent 1 familiar with the space as with every new industry, there are plenty of opportunities: Try upskill get Background: 2 1 started off in the financial industry and subsequently transitioned to fintech doing payments, partnerships, and general BD. Dipped my feet into the world of crypto in 2017 just before the ICO 1 boom and never looked back since. was fortunate enough to have had great mentors along the way guiding me through the ups/downs and ins] outs of the corporate rat race. currently manage all monetization, 8 general business development and pretty much anything that could contribute to growth: Salary wise 2 yes, may be on the higher end of the scale in comparison to local Since am unable to comply with the three-month notice, must pay the compensation which aware of it; and willing to pay but the management action 1 requesting payment be made within 24 hours, or they will take action is a bit exaggerates: From J my perspective, the management was extremely irritated and decided to treat employees cruelly until their last day of employment: aiongyalaecentgraduateeand 1 job seekers about what reality happen in the workplace (but not all workplace is nightmare) . Last but not least, choose your company wisely and know your worth_ 1 have changed 3 companies since my first job: have always aimed for a raise between 15 55 % raise from my basic salary before accepting any job offer; depending on the time length of which made my job switch: The company is an MNC. | am 1 currently leading a team of 3. believe this is an average salary in the manufacturing sector for Safety & Health Officer: Looking forward to hear from other SHOs in the c6 manufacturing sector: To all safety practitioners out there, never settle for anything lesser: am aware that many of uS are still 1 underpaid in this industry: 7 c Overall, I'm quite happy with my 1 work because the colleagues are kind to me and dentist is willing to teach knowledge about dentistry: J Sad is that the salary is quite low and have to work on weekend, and my boss like to ask US come earlier 15mins before working hour and we go back late around Sometiies , the job quite stress 1 oso cuz the dentist very strict thing have been working at this company for about 5 years before decided to 7 1 reloccheinese-helassan husbarced My supervisor offered to transfer me from Bangkok to KL office and would sponsor my employment pass. @malaysianpaygap 1 -1 accepted the offer right away because really need the EP pass, but 1 little did know that were going to decrease my annual income around 15%/4 they they Communications Specialist Management Consulting (small firm) 28, Malay; Female 4 years experience Bachelors RM42OO jobedesaripdoesas ttere it0Hato 1 expectations to wear multiple hats_ am not sure if it is market 1 value. had to handle both comms and IT items in the company despite not having any formal IT background because am the only designerlcomms person there. /'ve also done a complete overhaul of the company branding: A bit fesgontitilitieerarhe panding but 1 not the salary, just the job title. Wondering what the market rate is for this role + responsibilities: NEED YOUR hi guys, can you please help, im a psychology graduate and have been unemployed for 2 years, so basically have a 2 year gap on my CV; previously worked with special needs children and according to my supervisors i was good at it, decided to stop bcs somehow that line of work gave me terrible anxiety would completely froze during work, like i was frozen, cant move i cant do anything, it got to the point that i got physically sick bcs of it) then got into therapy and still am in it. i then tried again to work under that line with another company but i only lasted a week after the same thing happened, that was even with therapy after much consideration, decided to stop completely pursuing anything and just focus healing myself first so i can come back stronger: then i got married__. and i gave birth: now really want to start working again bcs truly love psychology and anything related to that: Advice ,, on Job: Commis chef Salary: RM2700 Gender: Female 8 Location: KL Age:21 Qualification: STPM @malaysianpaygap 1 did not graduate from any culinary school so my culinary background is 1 mostly built from attending short courses and part time working experience: My salary as Commis chef is considered very high as the industry usually only pay around RMZ.Ik RM2.3k but also depend on the kind Lawyer 28 Indian Female 3 years Ipoh; Perak LLB (Hons) Current salary : Rm 2,000.00 1 (inclusive of Epf and Socso) 1 No allowances, No bonus provided Started pay at Rm1,800.00 increased once to Rm2,000 and still stucked at it. The senior lawyers state its normal wage for any lawyers starting their practice since 1980s probably: Underpaid and overworked. CERTIFiCATE OF GooD CoNdugt HI Malaysian Gapl 1 got an offer from China and in order to get a job visa have to apply for a Certificate of Good Conduct to show that | have no criminal records. However the processing time will take 1-3 months for people to receive their certificate which is too long for my employer to wait !! Can you help me to share a post to reach out to any Malaysian working abroad that successfully make it through the long CGC journey and how long their experience is and if there is a way to get CGC faster: Pay Non-coperative clients (fmly) can be very exhausting not cooperative in maintaining the skills we teach: Always need to find balance between passion and ethics, the lines blurred all the time Veeneoarceeghebids )ecgress  1 But equally draining physically, mentally and emotionally Advice for freelance therapists out there, do your certification and a qualified supervisor to oversee you (to hv organized sessions, better method of tcGeisingollectipgodetsionady). 1 Know worth, charge clients accordingly: You are in demand! Sadly true #autismrocks Very get your My work hour is very flexible. 100% 7 1 wortredoing woerefromeod egnaf 30% travel around SEA region to visit customers and 10% for overseas conference or meeting: The work-life balance here is pretty great: @malaysianpaygap 1 toCepFRempogeiceartJand 21tdbyton annual leave which think it's really 1 frsaranceyhalscai caine /alth husband and kids: Product Owner Squad Lead Banking FinTech, KL 39 ylo, Male, Malay Workec veixtheriences along the 1 way 1 Bachelor Degree (MMU) Rm16,500 monthly Outpatient medical capped at Impatem medical capped at 1 rm50,000 Dental capped at rm5oo WFH 100% (forgot to mention they also provide furniture like ergonomic chairs and computer monitors for your home officel) . If had any humble advice to give for other queer Malaysians 1 yougglirgways akd covingunitow that wherever you go, and finding the little things in your work to be positive about is how you can make working a little less sucky @malaysianpaygap living, Pharmacist; KL Retail pharmacy (Chain with 2 branches) 26, Female J Degree: Local University 2 years compulsory service in Doing Bareatime Master'_socum 7 Pharmacy Practice Current salary: RM 4,500/ 48 hours per week- 6 work,1 off Gov, days day The pros: 2 Benefits and allowances like travel; health, reimbursements, fitness, etc are great as per international standards. Unlimited annual leaves and flexible working hours. 1 The Workingswith international colleagues and with the scope of work that involves dealing with people from opposite ends of the world, you have to be truly flexible 8 with your time. This includes attending meetings at late nights or early mornings on some days, and going out of your way to settle 2 unforeseen issues at other times because crypto never sleeps: Job: IT Helpdesk (Japanese) Industry: Tech Salary: RM8OO0 (6400 base+1600 Language allowance) Location: Remote Age: 27 Gender: Male Race: Chinese Qualification: Degree Experience: 5 years 1 Good MPG!aow 1 just wanna share a "hack" for us customer servicelhelpdesk peeps: LEARN A NEW LANGUAGE. Be it 6 Japanese, Korean, French, German; etc. Put your K-Drama and anime experience to usel It helps, a lot! day Overall; when first stepped into the company; things were chill and fine but looking to change job these days: Over the years, product better but Juataeeeomeeniet? yet peorse: 1 more attention and respect the 1 customer service department more across all industries. Products will never better without feedbacks and more importantly the people who collect and transmit the feedbacks back to the relevant department: Stop emphasizing the importance of customer service if you're not 1 ready to recognize its importance. Thanks. got get get Procurement Lead Oil & Gas 35, Malay; Female 2years current company 12 years total experience) 8 Kuala Lumpur Degree in Engineering RM18k current company is a multinational company; a service centre where you serve customers around the world: So you have to 1 work in shift, but not odd hours: If you search, there are a lot of international companies who open their IT, procurement; finance service centre in Malaysia eventhough they dont have any operation in Malaysia: Why? Because the operation cost in Malaysia is cheap. So can My they What I've learned from my experience in job hopping is: Don 't be afraid to leave a toxic 1 workplace: Don' t be afraid to reject an offer that doesn't meet your expectations: There are companies out there that will hire you even if you've been laid off. @malaysianpaygap Don't undersell your salary 1 expectations. Learn as much as possible in each company and strive to be the best: Effective communication skills are extremely important: Con more than half of the year you're apart from your loves one: 1 Can't return home in time in case of emergency need your present: Touch life onboard, experience seasick and homesick. No public holiday; Raya off or Agung's birthday: 24-7 on duty until the you go home. Limited internet 1 access to connect with the world outside the sea. day, day Brand Exec, FMCG 25, F 2 years 1 RMSK Business degree (US) 1 know what I'm earning may be higher than the norm, but the hours and effort put into my work 1 doesn't justify it: Would like to see how my peers are earning. maybe shouldn't complain? Hi MPG , 1 Job Assistant Project Manager Renovation ) Salary Rm 5000 Location Kuala Lumpur Experience: 7 Year Working day 6 1 Basically need to handle designer; site supervisor; scheduling, contractor; costing, material sourcing, quotation and QC. Is this up to market standard price ? 1 Day In 2020, a senior lawyer proposed on his own Facebook page that pupils shouldn't be paid (like interns; who are in a 9-month apprenticeship that all lawyers MUST go through before becoming lawyers) . They should instead be hired on a loan basis. Helshe would repay the Masters by working for them after the pupillage: The irony is that fresh law graduates may be nothing during their 9-month apprenticeship period. MORE? ME Tell paid Hi MPG admin, would like to get some advice Age 26 Type of Role Managerial Location Selangor Salary RMS-6k + 0.1% comm Years of exp 2.5 years 1 Wondering if should stay within the company or make a move? I'm currently working in a retail SME company; mainly runned by the family members. In terms of roles & responsibilities, oversee the digitall online department and was handling a team. Started as MLT in 2008 with RM13OO, progressed as Microbiologist 6 months later in Klang with RM18O0, moved to Penang in 2011 with RM22OO, company wound up a year later; unemployed for 1 year; took up clerical job with RMI1OO for 1 year; in 2014 offered as development technologist in current company J with RM18O0 salary; microbiologist vacancy showed up 0 grabbed Oe Difer working ever I since. Annual increment around RMIOO-RM12O. Been at the lowest but highly grateful: Went to an interview with one of the leading giant pharma in Penang; only to being cynically told we can't give you RM32OO. Iow, Seoral ofetre scbe heeebesever 1 version of urself and who you are personally shouldnt be different than who you are professionally: When you are doing your job, think about building a career or if not; use it to build your side Lastly; ask urself; would you hire you if you lose your job today? 0 empire. Having a full-time job, offers predictable income; in turn allows me to pick the freelance jobs want to take, rather than chasing after every single client that comes knocking: My freelance work has helped me improve in my full time job and vice versa: As for rates, its a tricky bit as it comes with skill level, 7 hausoy (evenes yoecaingnd the corporate, brands, etc) that you are providing your service in: Don't under estimate the power of word of mouth: Do good work & be to everyone. Don't burn bridges, in everything, be a problem solver: Can't do a job? Recommend 1 scouedr eorhescaroundat goes  PS: creatives def need a recognised association or of sorts here in Msia good guild Happy with current job. Got to spent extensive time with the family: Flexible working time, good leader and project manager: While no benefits in terms of medical, insurance since they don't have local office setup here in Malaysia, but the pay is good and should be 1 able to cover them Why not working with local company? None so far able to match current package None having a good environment and leader: Almost all local company has 8 bosses but not leaders. nasihat is, don't be afraid to quit current job if you are not happy. Know your worth. My 5. If you enter the negotiation with reasonable expectations and the mindset that everyone can and will achieve what want in a fair exchange, you establish yourself as professional: Don't be combative/ take things personally. Sometimes, the situation is just not favourable: they What's stopping me is. The limited upgrade level of my position in the department Niche role that is low in demand locally, still continuously applying overseas A so-called famous degree where back in time we don't have Malaysian paygap 0 don't have the skillset for another job The mismatched of market demand and skill sets: minimum wage living wage mental health). However; HR and upper mgmt did nothing with these and proceeded to not change my 1 Deefoeroanccemene svsceus Hence, would love to hear feedbacks from people of similar investment background on my worth in the 1 odwrethe OrdoiticreaCorgeanysights underpaying me (aside from obviously discriminating me for my mental health issues) _ @malaysianpaygap 1 Thank you so much and if this is published, please be kind in the comments! Job: Mobile Engineer -> Fullstack Engineer Salary Pre-tax: SGD6800 -> MYR58oo Location: Singapore->Malaysia (KL) Gender: Male 1 Rgce: Chinese Qualification: Bachelor Degree in Computer Science Working experience: 6 months Company Type: MNC 1 This is my second job, while my first was in SG. landed my job in SG before graduation and was relocated there right after | 2 graduate. Sadly just a few before was supposed to be  confirmed and pass probation, was layoff: App days Senior copywriter; finance 29F, 6 years exp BA in mass comm Salary (2022): RM1Zk+t 8 Salary (2021): RMAk Working in the same company both years. Was actually job hunting last year as my pay was stagnant for a few years, but there 1 was some very fast increases that happened in a few months: 4k -> 7.5k -> I1k -> 12k 1 The biggest jump was from 7.5k to 11k (promotion). The others were adjustments and raises. am still not used to my current salary: It is a huge mental adjustment from earning 4k: feel more pressure to work extra hard to please my clients and bosses: The biology textbook is not updated with the newest stuff- can we learn about COVID and the statistics 1 related to the spread of the virus? Why can't we include a bit of background of Quantum Physics in our SPM textbooks? I'm sure students will be interested in the duality of light. These are some improvements we 1 can make to our syllabus if we want to move into high-tech manufacturing: be starting my new job soon with increment of nearly 40%. Current boss didn't even try to hold me back although I've been giving my best 1 since my first And know my worth; i know that with my skills and experience, can go further: Well; QS is such underpaid job. Please dont settle for less. If they know jobseekers still accept jobs that pay RM1,800 for Zyears exp, then QS post will forever be underpaid: But 0 bear in mind, a wage demand must be tally to what you bring to the table. day: Gender; age, race: Female, 28, 1 MabywanChrenpbyees ghbaly Will be starting the job in Q4 so no increment history data to share @malaysianpaygap Normal business hours: Will not be managing a team as the 4 [odependlertrcontrobucoteo?mow: Offered salary is >100% above market: yet Job: Teacher Industry: Education Salary Pre Tax: 5000 Location Selangor Gender; Age, Race Female, Malay Years of Experience 5+ years @malaysianpaygap 1 How big is the company: Company type This is a private education company but being led in a very MNC style. If you are not use to a corporate working environment; then you would have a hard time in chasing after KPIs. There is about 100 headcounts but turnover is quite high: My ex boss in HR was the one who encouraged me to apply for the planner role didn't think was ready to move) as he felt it will really help me in the areas wanted to grow: And during my interview for the position, the interviewer was my future boss (obviously my now boss) and he committed to coach and guide me 1 through my development as was open to share with him where think my gaps were. And he kept his promise my second year in this role and he is already 0 asking me what want to do next so he can help me develop myself in that space through assigning me to projects and stretch opportunities. This will be something will continue to look for in all my future roles a leader who will support and coach my development: For the benefit of all who want to enter pharma sales: (nobody told me these so hope to help job seekers especially what to ask in interview Salary packages vary whether it is 1 a MNC/Local and whether it is innovatorlgenerics/distributor nature MNC/Local MNC pays better Becuase have the business scale & more 8 budget. However it depends on management also. allowances can go up to RM 1200 just for car (haven't include tolllparking) higher pay and better benefits 8 (medical/lunch etc) BUT also higher expectation (kpi & more restructuring) they { OveNture 1 E operation manager 2 Sales Engineer; Oil & Gas (Contractor) 29, Indian, Male 4 years working experience Bachelor's degree in Engineering RM13OOO Project Management; Oil & Gas 2 (Client) 1 20 yealayoerineexperience 9 Bachelor's degree in Management RM15OOO 8 Sales Geologist; Oil & Gas (contractor) 31, Malay; Male 6 years working experience Bachelor's degree in Geology RM165OO Job: Exotic Dancer (Freelance) 30, Chinese , Female 3 years experience KL Pay: MYRIk per hour excluding tips True story; not trolling: Was looking for a flexible high paying gig while on a career break 1 previously (have full time corporate job now). Will not share details due to security reasons but | you can always Google and there are usually some ads providing this service. Perform masked so identity is protected, no hanky perforroaacv Potewsioeed to be 1 super confident in your own skin, be a good communicator; engage the crowd and read the mood, and have passion to deliver an unforgettable show: Perks include free drinks, fun, and the front row seat watching your fellow humans experience indulging their fantasies. Working hours: 8hours (on paper) but 2 you are required to do OT as this will affect your bonus and increment (OT not provided) Are you a valuable asset: would like to think so @malaysianpaygap Are you happy: love my job but dont 1 love the culture want to make things better and improve the systems but am incapable to due to the high workload: Every single time people resign, the iostead ohereonfnaithea ereploeeson 1 to do the job: Job/ position assistant construction manager (construction engineering Iproject Agelaacefgenderice ,male , 1 Chinese Years experience :7 years 4 Job location : Klang Valley (depends on project) Academics postgraduate 3 0 Last drawn salary rm6o50 Stogtediue withea basacuate 1 rm3300 wl allowance of rm5oo. Initial years were good (10+% increments) when there were a pipeline of projects in hand: Cashier in Penang Male, 20, C Experience: just came out work Salary: RM6.50 an hour Working hours: 6 days a week 2 you work 13 hours shift The company is a kind of mart having couple stores in Penang It's quite especially when you work in a shop with customers coming in 24/7 Sometimes you might even mess up 1 and ended having to pay back the money you're short with Sometimes am a bit frustrated especially when the machine used is having issues Don't think my current salary match the minimum of 1.5k and am voicing it out to the management but said that am in trial period, will only get minimum wage of 1.5k after 3 months period days tiring they 4. Self-discipline , would say remote workers/freelancers is not for everyone, after all, it takes serious focus to do any full-time job from an 1 unconventional space. Successful remote employees have a reputation fohbling cheekemaiscandheplCteete 1 promptly even re on vacation, do not simply ignore emails as your client can always find someone to replace you: A SAD but TRUE fact is that freelancer can be easily replaced with another as there's no agreements] contracts in place_ tle LincOhue forerFreelanoing foor t0 I 1 way to circumvent taxes, be sure to do your bookkeeping accurately and precisely otherwise an incorrect declaration of your taxes will lead you to fines and an audit request. you'1 Work in oil palm estate. Standby 24 hours (if there is any breakdown in the mill, we need to go and solve the problem) Of course can take turn with colleague: 1 Job scope include engineering (mainly fabrication and modification) , maintenance process control management and human resource (we do have to do the interview of workers) 1 Have to know Malaysia Law such as FMA 1974, labour enviromental act, etc law; Prigh Salary 1 ~Get to travel alot to local and overseas. 1 Cprocess to become an LAEis now super hard: First you need to your license which will take you 5 years. Then say if your luck is good and 1 get There are also nightmare stories of "Mak Tiri", the ones who's just out to make every newbies' life miserable. The burnout rate as a crew is very high, and most times once your contract is over the airline hardly renews it too unless re an outstanding crew__or have a big cable. Most crews find themselves hard pressed to find 3 another job outside that pays as much cos most of them do not have a tertiary qualification: Yes we have commissions from sales etc but it's not that great as well: Even for full service carriers the cost-cutting initiatives have really 2 made this job undesirable. Unless again, re really "born with it" and you re able to get into the big leagues like Emirates, SQ, Qatar_ but their main requirement is more of spoken English and a great personality; and being an ex-crew helps. you' you', Working OT Tor FREE? asked the HR that whether | can apply for OT pay as an engineer (since operators & technicians are able to get OT pay but HR told me that need to get approval from the engineering manager: And the engineering manager told me that there's no such thing as OT pay for engineers, even there is no OT pay for the engineers in one of the engineering companies from Fortune 500. "Even if the engineers have to OT, we (as engineers) are not allowed to get OT pay, that's what most of the companies operate" 1 Depending on the scope of the gig, as well as how busy it was, n a cb month, could clear an extra 2-4000 a month in income purely from freelancing on weekendsleek nights. It was very hectic, but personally it was manageable. I think my rates are on the lower end of the spectrum when 1 do events, but generally 7 lifesakiegypeGhoots corporate and @malaysianpaygap good We teachers are expected to wear multiple hats including but not limited to CRM, being a nanny; a trasnporter; a counsellor; a marketer and a disciplinarian: Parents hold high expectations of us and demand their children's result improvement in a short period of time or else they will switch to another centre_ 2 have a side hustle on weekend whereby can make about RM 400~ RM 800 monthly non-tuition related ) _ It means that work seven days a week without a day off. It can be exhausting As much as used to say value work life balance, have realised that have started to worship the hustle culture in the pursuit of money:  Mid-CAREER Switch into Culinarv? Hi MPG, I'm looking for career advice for Pastry Chef position: | search through this page but no one sharing about pastry chefs: Appreciate if someone can share about this jobs's working environment. current job is accounts executive and currently plan to switch to FNB industries. know If would like to start as a pastry chefs recommend schools to join ? |m totally new but have the passion to pursue this career: Ps Im 32 yo right now: Thank you in advance My May Any My only advice is to set your own target of how much salary you would like to and when you want to achieve it: For me, was aimieg 3gefoareeest Ransgechen 1 achieve the early and am very grateful for it: If you feel the job is too stagnant and no room to grow; set your target on how long you're going to stay: Grab as much experience or skills as possible. Always update your CVIresume 8 and always look for a new opportunity: set my own goal to at least attend interview per year; regardless of whether are government, private, small or big companies, even if am not really looking for a new opportunity: The reason would of course, the cheeraerkee cbut otfer toseand how 1 much the market is willing to pay you: get get goal they be , Chindian-MaLAYSiAN Working In lam currently with an International School working a new role and I'm earning a very comfortable amount: Enough to pay off debts back home, support my mother; and live a very comfortable life here _ We are not rich by any measure, but we are comfortable Wifey and were stuck here all through covid and managed to remain employed: That's something Im grateful for beyond words: China is not easy to get in if you're looking for work: Your job will require you to be well qualified and all it has to be well documented.  NEED YOUR am a dentist: Age 29 earn RM5OOO basic_ About Ik-3k commission a month depending on patient flow: No EPF + SOCSO Most dentist know don't get EPFI SOCSO in the private sector: Apparently this is because the boss is considered the 'client' acquiring my service_ The boss provides the venue, facilities and in return; | offer profit sharing: would like to know if this is legal and if this happens in other fields? #Ilove my job and my boss, but it has become a norm that dentist don't get EPF and think it's not fair: Advice , Personally, think this company sets the highest benchmark in terms of benefits, at least to me. think it is very difficult to find any atherployenamhatfefferst forat 1 sure there must be a company that can provide better: Benefits: - Flexible work is allowed (e.g;, work from any location & login at your preferred time) 8 Work from office is currently optional: /'ve been wfh since / joined the company: 14 days of annual leave. We are moving towards unlimited AL by 2023. Wellness days off: coubiy holidaon following to 1 10 days care leave to care for spouse/domestic partner; child, parent or grandparent: Currently; there is a shortage of cyberlinformation security talent J pobsaiys thenghpepbee secarity ] skills, certification, and experience is in high demand. can demand higher salary and will have options in terms of their career path (e.g. migrate to oversea etc.) . Thus, this is the right time if you want to switch your career to security: 6 They cyber Stock Broker; Investment 26, malay; male 2 years, WFH, very flexible, Degree 3 Average rm1Ok rmzok 1 depending number of trades from client. First 6 months on the job helome ra3kighest monthly 1 Most actively search for new clients every month: 80% of people in the stock market will lose money However; as joined the workforce; it's only the first week but | am already burnt out. @malaysianpaygap 1 Our work is 9am to 9pm: 12 hours But this is just the tip of the iceberg: Sometimes we have to stay back until IIpm or even more. And remember; | said that there are no breaks. | am 1 working like this 7 days a week. I can't even leave the dorm and visit my family for at least one day because we're working like this 7 days a week: Started out with RM 2000 as a fresh Environments are usually nice and working hours are more flexible. However; | always feel udnerpaid for the work i am doing; i worked harder than the seniors and even 6 do a better job_ Easily feel demotivated knowing polehettange Joit eigheffciently 1 Increment is very low when you stay at the same company; you have to keep hopping between companies and fight for your salary: Can be tons of OTs without claims during crunch time; i guess this is just the nature of the industry: grad. paid NEED YOUR am aware that BPO companies have the rights to move people within the organization but am also aware that have the rights to know before my suspension that even if have been proven innocent of what am alleged to will still be moved to a different project with different client: Some of my friends advised me to complain immediately to IRD before the Domestic Inquiry but out of goodwill am thinking of discussing it with my HR team first or during my Domestic Inquiry: Is it possible if you share this as soon as possible so can some new perspectives and advices ? Advice_ do, gain Increment history in this job: RM12,O00 -> RM14,500 -> RM15,950 -> RM16,950 Average working hours: 40 hours] week (often less than this COZ our 1 bosses don't care if we do the hours as long as we finish what needs to be done as per timeline given)  Do you think you're a valuable asset to the company? Yes I'd like to think SO :) In addition, | am on rotational standby with other pharmacists for on-call: may be called after hours to answer any medicine questions from patients, staff, or doctors, and to source medicine stock if it is unavailable. All of this for only RMIO per on-call Even when am not on-call; | feceivervicls; ahesarereconsidered 1 claimable. occasionally have to go back and work on weekends or PH if there are insufficient manpower: There is no overtime pay: If am required to stay late to assist or complete my work, the additional hours worked can only be claimed as time off: day: 1 Se Proaesj Gafatyol agineer 15 Years KL (Occasionally required to be offshore) 1 Bachelor Degree (Local University) RM24,500 + RM750 Transport 1 EPf Emnployer Contribution 20% Average Annual Bonuses 2-3 Months 6 have been having this issue in my head so long now that don't know who to seek advice even though currently it's going quite good in terms of money 8 The insecurity feel is very strong; Im not sure how can sustain this because it's too variable, have been wanting to look for a more stable, challenging job and would not mind 1 going for a lower pay, since could learn more things and gain more exposure and potentially even be more successful and can rise up even higher in that new field. ask for advice on, what can one do with just a purely sales background from here on, know it's not a severe problem or issue compared to other posts see here borryuor tingklong wiraed ask 1 Personality: I'm a team player and like working in teams, very very very patient Skills: mainly sales and can maintain good communication and relationships with people for, May Hi MPG! Male/32/Native Highest education: SPM Occupation: Freelance Aquanaut OonmmnarLecal an imeranonal 1 company Work Experience: 13 Years Work Location: SEAMiddle East Salary 1 RMSOK/monthly(On Deck) RMIOOK/monthly (in the chamber) (depending how many days spent in a chamber) @malaysianpaygap climb the corporate ladder patiently for the past few years but it seems that the director is scared to loose talents. He promoted younger colleagues to senior and senior exec 1 position in just 2 and 3 years! am proud to be one of the leaders to train the younger colleagues to achieve this same pay grade as me under a short time, still do feel really hurt by this move. @malaysianpaygap The market right now is very saturated with retrenched] furloughed pilots (with experience to boot). So don't see much opportunity for fresh grads from flying schools at the moment: Then again, | emphasize that the 5 aviation industry is fluid: Travel is slowly picking up and the pilot community isn't immortal so there's definitely a market for new pilots, just that right now isn't it. in 5 years. Try again HOW IL Hello therel have a favour to askl Hello hello Go on, wat can help SO | am opening up a page on IG for anonymous posting of individual's current pay; job, qualifications, years of experience, race, gender the goal is to highlight low salary increment as well as pay gap existing in our country don't see anyone openly discussing about this at all, so | want to use a very soft platform like Instagram just to offer a space for transparency am wondering if you are up to be the first few to post that anonymously? STARTED Job: quantity surveyor 1 Gerdteonagangcelleemale, closing to 30, malay Experience: almost 4 years Industry: construction  Not many people from QS background shared about their 0 wage so here's mine: Freelance Property Negotiator Male 26 years old 5 years in the industry Focus on subsale market Orvereeeehigh and lows of property | owners often are lows Competitive industry and one could ends up earning nothing or 1 for months of hard work at worst We use A-Z skills just to close a deal Works get busy when people are at holiday 7 days per week at work the only rest got due to 1 got covid quarantine at home 80% of people the industry within a year Average annual income RM 250K quit 1 work 4 jobs which all did not gave me 8 stable income. 1 studied mechanical engineering and graduated in 2020 but only 1job in the field, which is only Protege Programme; a contract with 8 months ready to work: 1 applied 1 many companies after that: Download many job apps to apply, register many job websites and applied, but sadly failed: It almost like nobody want a fresh graduate like me at that time, it's understandable that it was a lockdown but still frustrating: then applied in falesNold drgoropereptgerealin F 1 Selangor as a real estate negotiator with full commission income. It's really got Our annual leave are 8 days (for those under 2 years of employment) and 14 2 days of MC. We get a limited reimbursement for our own reinforcers (toys for the kids) but all of us usually 1 ended up using our own money to buy toys as the amount given couldn't much: Oh, and we have a one-year contract binding us to the company so if you decided to leave earlier; you will need to pay a 'compensation' of the remainder of the wages: 1 salary is considered below average as compared to market salary (ranging Rm22o0 to RM35O0) and the reason joined this company is because wanted to do something related to my degree. In the company; everyone would start out as therapists, ascend to senior therapists then team leaders and finally case supervisors. It was quite easy to climb 7 the ladder as we have people leaving every other month and only few will remain: get My So basically can take home 4500-5000 (before 1 think my basic is under the market mainly cause i didnt JUMP company: If you are over 1.5 yrs in 1 one company; consider it PLEASE (even better if u are performing, because you are more confident to negoll!v) J Hoping for more pharmaceutical sareng esighthen more congrandes 2 are restructuringll Entered as fresh grad 2500. Annual promotion 2-3 (sad Imao) _ 8 Bonus 1 month based on annual performance (not guranteed): epf). Front-end Developer; Japanese 1 Speaker 29, Malay; Shoujo 6 years in the IT industry: This was the first job as Bilingual 8 programmer: Bsc in Information and Communication Technology: Current salary: RMGk before any 1 deduction: No bonus, no benefits other than MC and panel clinic: 3 Based on the job scope and and the my position title as stated above, | do believe that have been squeezed out like a sponge to do all the work for the company's benefits despite i'm working in the industry that i love so much_ When first started working there in November 2019 the management 1 were not willing to meet with my salary demand so i agreed to receive rm25o0 as a start since at the time was desperate to get a job after i got into an accident that required me to be on a wheelchair for almost a year: know machine programming language but that is only limited to one brand: I have done surveys and a few interviews before but it seems like if were to venture into same 1 field of career; for example working for machine maker; the salary is really really low and the working hours is crazy; plus the only way out after that is to become the boss yourself: Hope to join smth interesting and fresh but while 1 maintaining current compensation as i have alot of commitments. Looking forwards to all the suggestions! Job: Investment Operations, Associate Industry: Insurance 1 SolatioR3250 Gender; age, race: F 26 Malay Qualificationlyears of experience: Bachelor of Accounting, 2 years into this role @malaysianpaygap 1 This company is huge, one of the players in its industry: am bonded to the company for 3 years as sponsored my degree back then. | have +/- 10 months left until my bond 1 beriodecks souia belradry bookiocher company when decide to jump later on. key they 1 gradlatsie2o20fagejoe macegzee 2700 in HR and was over worked. Changed job in 2022 to with RM5OOO final salay RM62O0 as a Payroll Analyst. Changed to Payroll Specialist in 2023 in a new company way better allowance and benefits: 1 DISSCLAIMER This dashboard is supported by public survey data collected by MalaysianPAYGAP (MPG) from survey participants. MPG does not create this data, vouch for its accuracy; or guarantee that it is the most representative data available from the survey participants. The data is by its nature approximate, and will contain some inaccuracies: The dashboard is an effort to showcase wage information relevant across industries for Malaysians with greater aim to promote wage transparency in the country: MPG's data dashboard is not-for-profit. Please refrain from accessing the dashboard for commercial-use  We will not sell, share or trade the collected data: For more, please access through https // docs - google com/document/d/ 1 AiinF I02nal?vrGhsiyouKRMD M1Wcl 307m dhrhrev Staff Nurse Johor Bahru Female/3O/Malay Current salary RM260O, no allowance,no OT. Qualification Diploma in Nursing 1 Years of experience 8years J Previously work in hospital setting Ayears Average working hours 5.5days/ weeks 3 We are more on health screening 0 centre_ Provide medical check up to customer and corporate clients,vaccination: We are leading healthcare provider esp during covid time. (lykyk) Handling paperwork; insurance task, pre employment and so on: Wedding Planner & Coordinator; Wedding Industry 1 28, Chinese; F J 4+ years Selangor Degree (unrelated to job) before dedudcitionallowances, 1 IT (Healthcare Cybersecurity) 45 Malay RM8k month (before covid) AUDSk week (recent) 7 There is alot of wage theft happening in Malaysia: used to handle so many projects without a 8 single guidance, mentoring or 1 training and because of this habis Ia asyik kena tembak from the clients. Then progress meeting everyday; from 9am to Ipm, sometime the whole Unpaid werkend eebazlavererna time 1 nak work because juggling so many projects with limited resources yang tak pernah free and clients thats always unhappy how we always bulldoze the dateline because nothing is ever siap on time day: If you guys are wondering; before / have been accepted to this company; my application has been rejected and seen by more than 20 companies: 1 even have been to the third round of interview but still get rejected. 1 The here is to stay persistent and never settle for less. Best things will come, but not now: hope every interns the benefits that they deserved and wishes all the future interns all the best and please do not give upl key get Patient: 9 Is it a good idea to build friendships with HR? How do you define friendship? 'What doyou want to get out of this friendship? Experienced HR will detect insincerity, and your plan might backfire Is this a win-win relationship? Consider how you can provide support to each other 3 years of working in call center made me really hard to find another job with another role. 1 guess no other 1 company is willing to pay me a starting salary above 4k if were to change my job role (considering am a SPM holder with no any other job experience aside call centerlcs) @malaysianpaygap Please share with me, if there is any company or other job role that can 1 provide me with similar benefits as what /'ve gotten now? Or; should / further my study at least to get a Diploma Cert for me to jump to another role (i.e. HR, admin executive 3 etc to get a good starting salary?) How MuCh T0 NEGOTIATE? The workload can get pretty intense. Supposed to work around 40 hours per week, but due to understaffing and last-minute campaigns from departments, 1 end up putting in 50 hours for the past 2 weeks*  Despite the challenges, find solace in the company culture. It's vibrant and friendly, although a few toxic individuals are lurking around: Planner; FMCG 29, Malay; Female 4 years Klang Valley Degree 1 RM58o0 (include allowance) Planning in FMCG can be 1 challenging and tough: Especially during global supply chain shortage. Planning in general pretty much the middle person for the commercial and operation: Thus, analytical skill is crucial for decision making in order to meet both demands. Need am attached to an engineering company in Klang Valley as an engineer for a year and half now: Many office colleagues resigned and a few ran away: I'm currently handling a lot of construction projects at a time: Sometimes | work beyond my working hours and even during weekends. But there's neither any increment of salary nor bonus given: Last week, my office colleagues opened up to me that our office management compensated my bonus as my wedding angpau last year and everyone else received their bonuses. When | asked my management, they said have doubts that /'Il resign soon or sooner: It's really upsetting: texted message my senior engineer; but there's no response: Needs advice on how to approach in a better way to get salary increment and bonus. Can they really compensate my bonus as my wedding angpau? My salary without EPF cut + allowance is RM35OO. The wedding angpau gave me is RM3OOO really appreciate if someone could advise me on this AdvIce , YOUR they they Architectural Assistant / Architectural firm 26, chinese, male 2 years KL Bachelor's 1 Gross salary: RM28O0 J Was told by HR during interview that my salary demand was on the higher scale but thankfully still hired: Realised that many colleagues of similar position are probably less. However; also still very dependent on whether peolicfprivatebtaneddocalyabroad;, 1 for lowballing, especially fresh grads with the iconic, But re able to experience what an architect does, very insightfull" got paid you' [ What's stopping me is:_. Fear of the uncertainty uncertainty; I can't afford to not be employed as my fixed expenses is tied Next job land may not offer similar benefits and basic pay: Afraid of the uncertainty if | give up the current job Felt that my current skills are still not in par for the next job The paradox: all the 'what-if' is stopping us from living the 'what-if' life Job : Game Level Artist/Environment 8 Axperience 4 years 7 Months Salary start 2500 now 5000 Pre Deduction Location Kuala Lumpur 3 Qualification Degree Working mode Remote since Covid Am underpaid ? 3 1. Know what you want; how much it's worth to you, what you're willing to give up in exchange for it, and at what point you'Il have to walk away: Getting a 'no' is not necessarily bad, it's simply a misalignment: All of these signs are clear indications that whatever we're having now; isn't working: Nah: Inaction, or refusal to vote will only means 100% stay right where We are for coming years. Do not predict a hopeless outcome. The predictor is often the contributor to the hopeless outcomel Go & VOTE Job Grab Rider Salary : RM2.5-4k depends on weather and how much hardwork you can usually work 8-12 Hoursarydyears 1.5 years 8 Race Malay Gender Male Academic Qualification Diploma In Electrical Engineering High risks job. Even someone said 1 doing food delivery is an easy task; you don't know bruh how fear we are in the road. We face so many near death experience. put day underqaidy(basicallateeng on-call 1 24/7) compared to managers talent agencies since the workload can be really over whelming when 1 there are several campaigns on- going at same time. Dealing with at least 50-60 influencers at once is just the norm & quite frankly; without incentives it's hard to cope with: Apparently the turnover rate is quite high too, people often comes and goes here_ 1 1 After work, always go to the gym and spin class: keep myself healthy and fit and make sure my mind, body and soul that healthy endorphin: Always remind yourself that you are strong enough to deal with anything: If 1 Ican do it, YOU can do it too! Don't ever give up on yourself. At the age of 19 -24, I lost my best friends, my lovers, my grandparents: It was not easy for me but / always remind myself; "I have me" @malaysianpaygap 0 get Audit assistant, Small - medium firm 27 Malay Female 2yrs + Wangsa Majul Setapak, KL Bachelor's Degree RM 2.4k before deductions) Actually; I'm a bit intimidated to share 1 my story here as all posts from same industry as mine were from big 4 1 When first start working pre ~covid era, my salary was RMI.6k and it was raised after probation. received increment every year; SO far: I'm grateful: Working environment is grekes coleergoe sayeogttionxias audch 1 assistant there and this is the only things that stop me from finding new job if want to develop my career: think the only that makes me stress about work is clients and their expectations (other than that deadline and not so understanding parents, yes lives with my family but not for free)  Exp thing Best example is the practise of asking payslip to "verify information" which is still sadly a practise, even after been brought up in few discussions: But am proud to see some of the candidates stood up for themselves R now; telling straight to us and Hiring Managers that the practise should only be by disclosing expected salary and payslips are highly confidential. Please continue as powerless HR like me sometimes depends on feedback like these to fight off certain old practices. 0 know some people detest HR in oeeeralhot beweve puttiherpeoeleoodt 1 bringing feedbacks to the meetings even after few rounds of rejection: And sometimes it does hurt a little when there are still people asking "actually HR do what ah? Sit inside aircond so nice" lol but i always try to explain and let people understand what we do Thank you for reading and please continue to fight our rights as an employeel Rights, That's what all lawyers are fighting for. Yet; the young pupils are deemed as unreasonable to demand for minimum allowance: Right: Recruitment Coordinator 31, tamilian, female: 10 years experience in admin/HR RM4OOO only, still low based on my qualification and experience J I'm degree holder in medial designing: Regretted for the Z;SZ Ii right amount of salary for my experience and qualification: Nobody was there to guide me about salary range Thanks to MPG for showing the correct path to fresh grad as well get Total Balance RM 43,368.61 Balance as at 27/09/2023 Baki Pembuka RM 17,831.61 Caruman IWS RM 20,822.00 1 Caruman RM 4,715.00 1 This is a glimpse of my EPF, as someone who is only turning 25 this year I'm thinking of applying to become a hospital dietitian either in Malaysia (limited opportunities and low pay) 1 or in the UK or Australia. But it's expensive and difficult to move overseas, could not find any Malaysian dietitians who went to other countries I'm also thinking to further my studies but the 1 uncertainty in getting a job in the future is scarier. Product Manager; Fintech, MYR 20000 KL,and South East Asia Female, 28, Chinese 1 This is a medium size start up 1000-5000 employees. In its unicorn stage: Still receiving funding from investor: In plan to go public but no concrete direction. 3rd job now in Malaysia: 1 Claim agent (BPO) > PMO, Product (e-commercel fintech) > Product (fintech) 1 And if youre asking why did | endure all of this stupid company is because this story happens during the pkp darurat where most companies did not want any intern and apparently its the only company that accepts me. Yes it is in the rural area of Selangor and rentas negeri is not a better move to 1 gerester ishe 9igsox DeGedinoveecuz  dont take PTPTN and couldnt afford the semester fees. @malaysianpaygap get Aircraft Maintenance Technician Working in airline M24MMalay Salary: 2.5-3.5k Qualification: Diploma & basic license without type rating 1 This is an industry with very few job openings: You will have to start as a technician until you're given a chance to go for 1 yoeartngineersthel icleue loralpe course and to endorsed is very long: Might need some luck The pay for technicians are severely underpaid: Some are getting minimum wages: 1 Maaystarhoursh peskeek Wiorking days off: Sometimes we have to work 6days a week with only a off. OT is always required: We are always required to work on public holiday and on our rest   day day: Photographer; self-employed 30, C, F 6 years into the job Everywhere in the world Charging of branded lifestyle shot: RMSOO-Ik per pic (sometimes aceepc Rwesofpio) Fosheiorwill 1 magazine pays per editorial: RM25OO (not sure about the market rate, always in the dark)_ Art direction/storyboarding: RM1SOO for like 2 hours max of work_ 1 Safety & Health Officer 25, Malay; Male (26 on this 26 feb 2023) Almost 6 years exp Industry: Construction & Manufacturing 1 Education: Diploma in OSH & Part time Degree in OSH (now at 6th semester) Current Salary: RM87O0 (basic only) c6 Benefit: Millage claim (RMI/km) , tolls, free lunch, medical Work: 6 (Saturday alternate , if contractor didn't come, off day) 8 day And now here am, on my 4th as an IT helpdesk, still, but servicing Japanese users, using Japanese. If had stayed in my comfort zone using only my native languages might have been stayed stagnating and stuck: Learning a new language and working in the said language environment had grew 1 my career and broadened my horizon beyond my expectation: Not to mention; with 2+ years of business Japanese experience under my belt; | can now watch anime without subtitles and travel to Japan with 0 6 language issues @malaysianpaygap Looking back have quite a steep learning curve as a junior consultant: My supervisor left the company shortly joined and she and were the only ones in several projects. On of that these projects are left at a 8 devastating state and have to learn how to do project management; review vendor reports and meet tight deadlines with menial project budget left to spare: The company support was great, and enjoyed being able to learn so much new skills and scopes in such a short time. Soon was put looked uptronveryamager betcouse she V is super good at what she's doing: So learn what can from her; aspiring to reach where she's When this manager left the company; my boss recognized that I'm capable of carrying out projects independently, have good working relationship with our vendors, and is generally easy to work with and always making sure deadlines are met: That's where yoU see the jump in both salary and bonus: top at. 2 Hey, here's my progression as requested in email: Ist job RM3,100 (increment to RM4,300) 2nd job RM4,850 1 atd job RM9oOO Sth job RM14,000 (increment to RM18,000) Took a break from employment and dived deep into the rabbit hole of 8 cryptolweb3 (non-technical aspects) and eventually landed my 6th and current job 8 Audit Assistant 24/MalaylFemale 1 year experience Current salary RM 1,800 Location: Kuala Lumpur 1 Bachelor of Accountancy Hi mpg, my story quite similar with 1 the girl who work as audit assistant: Here's my side of story: started my career with this one Gorh?ae corparopev cofferCetter 1 was short and simple. A few days of working then only received letter of appointment. That's when realized there are no annual leave will be given in my first year: There are commission and ot payment will be given. Resignation notice is My My education background is accounting degree and law masters. However; the starting salary is low if 1 accosntingcorecuglve ikezakalegal Hence, I joined BPO company and worked as a claim agent: The salary is good, with OT can get 6k average together with commission: But it is a mundane job where U repeatedly doing the same It's not the career wanted. Knowing 1 this, tried to find other jobs, at the same time, without knowing what exactly what want to do_ paid thing: Job: Aircraft Line Maintenance Engineer in RMAF Rank: Captain Company: Mindef; RMAF Industry: Military Aviation 1 GariorROB sde.  Qualification: Bch Aeronautical Engineering Experience: 8+ (Aerospace, Military Aviation) 1 Graveratev ifroralaespectebiethrougl rigorous selection and military training to be Commissioned as Military Officer: only selected will be absorbed into the airforce. My current position is normal 9-6 working hours, good work-life balance, average compensation package. The company and team 1 saveeciooed orkbeg interpretedtas toxic positivity too. lol Standard corporate life insurance Annual coverage on medical related as follows 30k  hospitalization, 2k for GP; 1.5 for 1 dental and optics, 2k for specialist visit and maternity coverage. It covers spouse and child(ren) too! It's a small local tech company, the product team was under- established: knew this during interview but still accepted the job because it gave me opportunity to explore. left the job for better opportunity ] last month: | felt like staying for J longer will harm my career growth: Here are a few warning signs identified: 0 You can't any constructive feedback from your leaderlteam_ 1 The team doesn't measure metrics and define success criteria, therefore no action will be taken to improve the product/ workflow get 1. Consultanting is a gratifying job due to the broad scope of work from one project to the other: There are opportunities for work travel 1 regularly (although it can get tiring)  2. Compensation relative to other fields if work is higher; however; the expectations are incredibly high: 1 Some consulting firms have an or out" where if one does not promoted within a specific timeframe, they are advised to leave (the company will assist in a job search) "up get Hi mpg admin Technician 30, Male, Malay Diploma in Mechanical Engineering 8years of experience @malaysianpaygap MNC semiconductor (8th company) Location Penang 1 Current Salary RM 6-7k (gross) maintain every months inc ot, allowance & all benefit. RM 8k ++ (gross every 3months for qpi bonus) Companv PERKS 0f Te78 RM4OO monthly allowance on e-wallet RMaooo/annum for optical/dental/chiro/mental health therapy Phone bill claims 20 annual leave AL for every public holiday that falls on Satuday Birthday month allowance WFH allowance Disclaimer: This info is shared by multiple community members of MalaysianPAYGAP for the "Ultimate List of Companies in Malaysia with Perks" in late 2022. Please further fact-check TnG Group for your perusal Wg 6 days good Lead data science, manager; industry data analytics 36/Malaylmale 8years Location KL 8 PhD in artificial intelligence Current salary: 18,200 basic, 400 1 allowance 8 Data science is the new exciting trends. Salary pay is varied depending on qualifications and experience. MNC companies are willing to pay high if you have the 1 right expertise and experience handling these complex projects. people claimed are data scientists but come short in interviewlreal world applications. Ability to prove and understand your worth: You will always be in upper hands discussing salary with HR or recruiters Many they Ijoined workforce quite late due to 1 life events. So, this is my first full time job & company: started from below and here's my increment history: Mid-2020 2.5k Early-2021 2.8k Early-2022 3.5k  Early-2023: 4.2k (current salary) 1 Product Specialist/Dietitian Health supplements industry 30 / chinese female <1year in my current job Kuala Lumpur J Bachelors degree in Dietetics & 1 Nutrition Current basic salary: RM32O0 3. Great place to grow with brilliant people and great mentors: love my job and where | am right now:  1 My advice to those interested in breaking into a consulting career is to start researching the firms and the case interview process. Search for free guides on YouTube and 1 mebages ieret prerslatingeesource journey in which felt I grew a lot, primarily through practising the case interviews! left for a another opportunity which offer better salary and a structured workflow and mentoring system: Advice to new designerlcareer 1 switcher: we are not i. The perfect J world, what we learned in bootcamplcertification are 0 "success stories" of how designers make impact: In the real world, use your super power to youssentlyouproceandareacam: 1 If you think you worth more, deserve a better team, go get it Interviewing process: 4 stages 1. Recorded video interview 2. Personality and Logical assessment 3. Virtual group interview 4. Physical case study interview Overall the interview session was Skaple: Practice foaketereetects 1 actually practiced a lot in front of my parents and did multiple interviews with other companies to train myself; plus did it without burning any money; there are a lot of free websiteslvideos if you to look for it. {Sheo poeksslace as aloaftertorkiege 7 for 6 months, so I'm really happy at work: am not wise enough to give out advice, so will just say that luck will be by your side if you are optimistic about life: to implement the think and grow rich philosophy in your mind: try Try If re really passionate, please remember that only a kitchen that allows you to be creative and really work on the food is the right kitchen 3 for you: And the right boss will always appreciate their passionate chefs. malaysianpaygap All in all hope that people will stop thinking that only famous chefs are 1 real chefs and the rest are all kitchen helper. And chef is not only for those who are not academically: Chef is a real job with real passion: And only passion can drive you far: you' good 1 now work full time for a small video production company and they basically save a lot of budget by hiring full-time monthly salary employees to do our projects, because no matter how many projects or how many shoot J YOl paye sme aldrythe company 7 You may ask, do | stay being a full-time if freelance could make me more money? For me it's stable monthly income and no hassle doing epf and tax as a self- employed: days why Increment history: 4.2k (2018) > 4.9k (2019) > 6k (2020) > 8.3k (2021) > 11.4k (2022) > 20k (2023) 1 Average working hours: 1. previously in e-commerce: 10 12 hours for the first 3 years and sometimes weekends OT. 2. Now in fintech: The current working hour is more durable. Off 1 on time and people will not message in groups during weekend or after hours_ 3) My personal experience , already changed 4 companies and demand 30% increase in every job change: started with national oil company (no cable ya) and only changed job 3 after 8 yrs of experience. Worked like shit but all the experience are worth it. Make sure the number of years you spent in the company are worth it regardlesss of how shit the companies are you understand the process, you learn every bit of their method/system] template. Because this will be useful when you want to 1 sehoycorsplainetateoutavs ofriend everyday without fails for 10 years because he hated the job (but stay because of salary) , but after 10 yrs he still knew very few about the job, still behave like a junior: Now he has resigned due to overstress but hard to land any new job because his skill is still like a junior: So dont waste your timel  Job Marine Engineer Position Third Engineer Salary approx RM2Oklmonth (non taxable income) 1 Egperience 26 4 years working For those who are interested to explore this career can start your study in Politeknik Ungku Omar 1 (PUO) Perak or Malaysian Maritime Academy Melaka. Course name Marine Engineering  Job: Copywriter Industry: B2B marketing Salary: RM41OO Location: KL 27 1 Galder bioh-binary, AMAB (assigned @malaysianpaygap Race: Chinese Qualification: Bachelor's degree (unrelated field) Years of experience: 1 year + Age: Learnings throughout the interviews: Aways negotiate your salary; if you can to ask for the budget of the role You are interviewing the company just as are interviewing you. Know your value. 1 Degrees are not the only way to acquire knowledge, 1 did a bunch J of case studies, took certified courses, network with people on LI; read & as much experience as could_ The people you surround yourself with will affect your pecsrecoieend @acing Rich Dad 1 Poor Dad, it would widen your horizons on money & salaries generally: Final thoughts: It's very much possible. You're only limit is you: wish all the job seekers all the best! try they gain am happy with the job that I'm doing now but occasionally get burnouts due to my own perfectionist and anxiety issues (currently getting professional help) : Bosses are caring and always want to know if we have any inputs or concerns with the 8 company's direction and plans, and they rarely find us after work hours + reminding me that should not take work as my whole person's identity: think my salary is above market rate 0 average, as my increments are companble(preasoseortecfumneed'm V wrong) . Got to where | am not by taking up extra responsibilities as a junior; always ask if can help in other projects when sit idle in office, not afraid to collaborate with seniors across the region, able to manage emergencies arising from projects, always have the company's reputation in mind, and wanting to deliver the best to my clients: *where am now My 3rd job secured a position as IT helpdesk in a MNC's shared service team servicing Japanese users. My initial pay was RM48O0 and my latest paycheque is RM53OO. stayed in my 3rd job for about 2 years and really had no real complaints for it (I said that for my 1 Zndeosingobutdetentalate aa MNC benefits are really nice , but was approached with this current new offer that simply can't turn down: @malaysianpaygap 2 Also if anyone is curious as to the significant jump from my last job to current one, it was mainly because / 1 beechmarkorthegotiateusana risked it by telling them if I'm not close to exceeding expectations during my probation, will voluntarily resign: 8 Never looked back since 2 by a brand is written by one person (if lucky, a whole team of content creators): To manage so 1 many social accounts that involve not only creating but also 1 planning, strategizing and analyzing and having to write and post something almost every 0 other day is exhausting: | am doing a whole team's worth of sorledaysrk aorknd miynieekends are 1 also taken up by creating content: It's exhausting: took ptptn and jpa to survive in uni, (both of which have to pay back though not 100%) and according to 1 Jobstreet, I'm at the lowest end of the average pay for my position:  could not stand for too long at my previous job and the pay was low for a 48 hours per week (which was then reduced to 45 hours per week 1 early this year). just wish it's easier to find another job in my field. Plus points: make work easier for yourself is a great way to reward yourself with more time. currently in the progress to make the modules even more bite-sized for me to organise and provide better solutions to our clients 1 Why did you accept the offer? As mentioned earlier; was shocked at the transparency the HR gave to me_ More than often, you'd expect a bit of a ding-dong; or a "quick" call (30 1 mins to an hour) before you even a number: This lady literally responded with 5.5-7.5k depending on your experience, so yeah: | appreciate the transparency  get 1 So when told my lecturer and showed her the pictures of my jobs, she was so shocked and "lectured" my SV for one and a half hours. Thank God ended up getting an A. 1 won; but at what cost? The trauma still lingers in my head. Everytime met the same kind of manipulative boomers during 1 interedeatelythothaeknow Paates will be the same old hell: Thats all thank you: @malaysianpaygap Love Your Company Perks? Submit to showl Telegram For Exclusive Chat Join us on Discordl Linktree * Cookie Preferences There is light at the end of the tunnel, but i tell you it's a very very long tunnel: Endless exams, sacrificing family for work and study; doing research and writing papers, and then being transferred here and there (while 1 in the goverment sector). Hoever; this career noW gives me the opportunity to give back to the community: Having enough 'cushion', was able to take leave 1 and work with NGOs, do charity 3 work, go on medical missions and outreach projects _without getting paid: A lot of doctors in the private sector do this btw. With a huge income, your income tax is very high, and so is zakat: Settle them with good intent; and be proud 1 that you are doing good. a word to those aspiring or wannabe doctors. choose your pathway well, and give back to society: Dalam rezeki anda, ada hak orang lain". All the best: So, Radiographer GP Clinic 25, Female 3 years Selangor Dip Radiography As a starter received now 1.8k with 200 allowance Also have to work as a clinic assistant. Salary didn't differ much from a clinic assistant: 1 6 working days per week Oeceived Ionbthaurmiolhour; now 1 Toxic environment and high work loads: Sometimes need to do OT from morning to night. So tiring: You can choose this course but please dont at Diploma; take it further and dont work under clinic: Most clinic dont want to pay higher than 2k even now high demands for radiographer: Now im applying to further my studies. Wish me luck: Malay; 1.2k, stop NEEd Your So now I'm confused: If my 13th month bonus is guaranteed based on offer letter; then what is the purpose of my annual performance review? Am not entitled to another bonus based on performance? Should the letter specifically indicate that I'm entitled to 13th month(guaranteed) and performance bonus(non guarateed)? Am shooting myself in the foot by signing the letter because can never more than one month bonus? get Advice 1 Can add on more? Hahaha: @malaysianpaygap For the role as Data Analyst, it requires you to understand about the numbers, the graph and _excel As for me, I'm a social media data analyst in the marketing team: So need to 1 give my input, apa yang need to improve, campaigns, events: This role more like a strategist too. You need to be strategic in terms of giving the next steps and the steps need to have a good impact for the brand 1 Job: Web Developer (IT) Location: Remote from KL Income: 3,500 GBPImonth (RM 18.5K +/-) Working hours: Flexible; Typically between 12:00 pm 9.30 pm 1 Side hustle: Senior Software Engineer (IT) Income: 5,500 EURJmonth (RM 25.7K +/-) Working hours: Flexible; Typically 2-3 hours per 8 Started as a Web Developer with salary of RM 1.8K. Standard benefits, typical IT cornpariy:  day 2 Don't be entitled_ Explain the appeal you're providing and why your request is reasonable: Everything you do should be based on the value you can provide and the value you require in return: What's stopping me is_ Friends in current company and good boss Maybe feel like current situation not that bad although can get more My boss is kind, dont want to disappoint him: And im afraid cannot get a kind boss The non toxic working environment and culture, with friendly colleagues Comfort at the current job Something greater than money: joy, comfort, trust: Multi-regional compliance counsel {soldieontsibuorlhoxfricia Pacific, 1 Year: 2019 Years of exp as of 2019: 11 years Salary after increment: MYR ] 15896 Industry: Oil and Gas (US MNC Fortune 500) Location: KL (and Dubai cuz of my other two regions) Education: Law Melayu Searrieale (but straight) and 1 Ras: Senior claim processor; Insurance 29, Chinese; F 4 years experience 8 KL Bachelor Science (Hons) Biotech 1 RM5OOO-6oo0/ month (before deduction) Can get 6-7k/ month in previous 1 company but have to OT for 80-100 hours. Decided to for better work-life balance. quit (Sorry for my bad English) Im Degree Student; but at the same I'm a content creator on Tiktok with IM followers XD Ima content creator who hide my 8 real identity: average income on Tiktok for a 1 month is about 1,000$ (RMAk 1 something) . The highest amount earned 2,600$. | earned from the video gifts, review (sometimes) and Live gifts (often): 1 do my live nearly everyday or during my free time. [ got minimum 50$ per for 2 hours live (based on my observation) @sikhutlossknty My day What lights me up is my director puts his trust in me to reorganize the team 1 enjoy the freedom to utilize my creativity too (Such as graphic design, visuals, etc ) The director is quite happy with my productivity so far: The only downside is that feel that my contributions don't quite match my current salary: But completing tasks brings me a sense of satisfaction:  Accepted this job because of the company culture: The interview experience was fantastic The director was open-minded, valued discussion, and preferred direct communication: Company provide us with 29 days of annual leave and medical insurance 1 Gnveraing ceperieents outpatient @malaysianpaygap But sometime being "bullied" by some rude client made me always want to left a call center job. 1 am sick of talking with a person who pretends to be so dumb by giving uS nonsense 1 request just to to what want and refused to follow the policy terms and conditions. don t understand why some people acted like superior when are talking to call center agent 3 they try get they Patient: like my work environment but 1 don't think the job scope gives me much advanced opportunities. Please advise. Firstly, have you raised this concern to anyone at your workplace? Common mistake: doing only what's asked and magically expecting new opportunities Instead, examine each and every one of your responsibilities and KPIs Then ask yourself; is there anything can do more of to add more value? Age: Just turned 22 last week Race: Chinese Job: Actuarial Intern  1 Salary HKD 12000   Approx RM6937 Most of you guys must be wondering- why the salary is in HKD? 1 scored well in my SPM and was 1 awarded the JPA Penajaan 9A+. However;I decided to go to HK after receiving a better offer from the HK government: Cons management trainee ~sesetengah benefit yang disediakan tak dapat kita enjoy, sebab ada yang untuk permanent sahaja beibangeriCGiriaegatbanyak L ~lari jauh daripada bidang asal J saya tapi bagi saya, kebanyakan benda yang saya belajar dalam bidang ni masih 0 boleh diproses. Janji kena jadi open kepada ilmu: Harap dengan submission ni, dapat membantu orang yang baru brbys bebaiab bangkeeritusaasils 1 Mastcr $ Dcorcr Nen molt Oiner Llic (Ccaa Wuknatcnni catcotalion PrD Govctnnen-hnked Ov4eej:) cornpJnic   76 4 Protess coal Cerfcaion(e) Fredlancesekempkyed Female Male Non-binaryfolhers + Hello peeps! AIl of your wage submissions are now available for access through our data dashboard. This is our interim dashboard until a more perfect one can be coded and cleaned. Until then, please forgive any of our shortcomings with this current version. + Job Specialisation Bachelor's Degree Bachelor's Degree (Overseas) Diploma Diploma/ Professional Certifications High School 57.9% Master's Degree 42.6% Master' s Degree (Overseas) Denice Regional Finance Manager 8 Start-Up FMCG MYR 16,500 Male, 36, 1 FCCA, 12.5yrs of working experience Operated in 5 countries: Average monthly revenue around SGDZOOk-8O0k for the whole group 1 Average working hours is between 8-9hrs daily: Occasionally when issue arises, it will be beyond that.  Malay Firstly; let me just start with my job scope at the current company: 1. Graphic designer (motion/2d/ interior) 2 Marketing executive (social media manager; brand development; artist relations) 3. Web designer (back end & front end) 1L necoaywriter (blogs, articles, social 5. Indoorloutdoor photographer 6. Videographer (TikTok) 7. Audio engineer (music recording, mixing and mastering) 8. Event organizer (planning, designing and execution) with full commission income. It's really hard because did not have savings to 8 sustain to do the work: So took another job in Seremban as an assistant to a property valuator doing valuation 1 report. also do Grabfood to up my income and a little bit of home tutoring: Life is really hard after covid and sometimes feel like all my years studying is a waste. Currently open to job opport @malaysianpaygap Curretablo necorneob opocrinitielittle 1 family: Thank you admin if you're posting this top Statutory Accountant, MNC RM4.2k Female, 27 Bachelor's degree (local private uni) + ACCA (10/13 completed) 1 1.5 years Big 4 audit experience + 2 years commercial experience Accounting shared service centre specialised for Asia Pacific companies My role is to prepare audited financial statements for statutory and tax reporting for a number of entities in Asia. Need to [ prekurcleat iensceaidlinearthbigh meet the audit and reporting deadline. Requires constant hard work and personal time sacrifice especially during peak period: A HUGE mistake to undercut myself fr the start found out my peers got 2800 and above. Basic is important because it is your BULLET for future job search 1 & salary negotiation. Recruiters will say that the fixed allowances compensate the gap or even "exceed your expectation" but NO IT IS A TRAP those are allowances for ur travel essentials!! You are 80% on field 8 and you might need to do pay&claim on some marketing initiatives. So you need basic salary for your BASIC PAY FRESH GRADS pls request your 8 worth!! Dont be afraidl Frankly; the working conditions in this 2 company are stressful and you are kept on your toes at all times There's ~ not a moment you can stop to breath and if there's a time you felt you have free time, think again, you are probably forgetting to do something_ Being based at center isn't that bad but if you ended up as a therapist 1 providing services in homes schools, good luck rushing back and fro between sessions and having a meal. Working with the kids are quite fun except when you get those can be quite aggressive (biting, grabbing, etc): But in this sector; you will always encounter them so what to do? And to be honest, there's up and downs with working here but the stress can be too 7 much to handle at times. When first started at this company; was offered 6.8k. Recently promoted to manager leading of a team of 25. think that the salary paid to hospital pharmacists does not reflect our workload: Most private hospitals only employ 1-2 pharmacists to meet the requirement of laws: The hospital pharmacist is in cbargethe FOsprectincfudiedicirgg 1 procurement, internal supply, the dispensing process, and patient counselling: plan and deliver training to pharmacy and nursing staff; manage department budgets, serve on several hospital committees, and conduct internal audits to ensure compliance with SOP; accreditation, and legal requirements. My advice: @malaysianpaygap Make sure you get your Phd before starting your career in lecturing: Starting pay is much higher (mostly with 6k and above) , and better treatment from management: Handling students (regardless young or older one) is nvr be easy as ABC. Students will expect you to spoon 1 feed them and will text you whenever they want (even mid night). That's even worse in ODL setting- If you are not being patient enough, please reconsider: Lastly; if you are not a research - oriented person, perhaps this path is not for you: they Also, our allowances are now taxablel (yay?) even more deductions compared to before. But even then, I'm glad that still have a well paying job that can support my family: Can't complain about job security 5 (since I'm still working) and to be honest, feel guilty to complain about my salary since understand that the aviation sector in Malaysia won't survive if the salary that feel is right. For noW; I'mjust grateful and hopeful for the future: So, get My Increment History are as per below: 2016 2400 2017 2600 2018 3200 (Appointed to Leader) 2019 3700 (Leader + Basic Increase) 2020 3900 (Leader + Basic 1 'czease9 3900 (resignation submitted but rejected no counter offer) 2022 4700 (promotion to senior +extra role allowance) 2023 5000 (promotion to senior exec + extra role allowance) @malaysianpaygap Job: Team Planner Industry: MNC Location: Kuala Lumpur Gender: Female Race Indian 32 Qualification Double bachelor's degree in biotechnology and medical 3 biosciences Working experience started out in HR for 5 years, 2nd year in this planner role. Current salary: rm1Sk Company MNC , quite a big company, 0 close to 18,000 employees globally Started out as a fixed term analysts for the HR team and progressed through to a HR business partner role and had an opportunity to move to this planner role reporting to the operational VP Age: Are you happy in your job? Extremely! The happiest I've been actually, the job ticks all the boxes that are important criteria for me at this stage of my life and professional career: Love the 1 flexibility (we are on hybrid work arrangement) and my bosses are all super trusting; none of them are  micromanagers Optional: Are you leading a team? No. Job: Marketing Communication & PR, Senior Executive Industry: Property Developer 8 Location: KL/Selangor Gross salary: RM6,500 Gender: Female Age: 31 Race: Chinese 1 Years of Qualification: 5 years Salary History: - First company: 4.2k Second company: 5.5k Third company: 6.5k Cyber Security Engineer; HK Male/29/Chinese Rpprakimorehy 3 Degree: Salary HKD 77500 (Basic + equity)_ Started out in a consulting firm with a fresh salary: Starting out could be tough due to long 1 hours however different projects you the needed experience that is in demand today: MNC is based in US due to that there is a need to work mutliple times zones hours could be long: Work could be stressful at times as the work environment is fast paced angehighoerighmaingeFfosirantery 1 compensation is often in vested equity: grad gain paid Associate analyst for MNC at KL Female/Chinese/26yo 4 years working experience Bachelor afcegreositiocounting 7 ACCA member 1 Income: RM6k Bonus: 4 months 1 Work in shared service center; 0 main job scope is relating to reporting tasks and attending ad hoc request from local user: Most of the time have work-life balance, 1 but super peak during year end closing and to meet project deadline_ Freelance Transcription Project Manager MYR 50,000++ Ipoh, Perak (remote) Female, 35, Chinese ACCA graduate, with 14 years experience in translation industry 1 Worked as a freelance translator since 1 2007 when was studying ACCA, ended up become my full time job after graduated. Recruited by a US company as their project manager; to manage transcription projects that aim to enhance the client's automatic speech recognition (ASR) Vicecieebsite is the aroest stresring I everydag brevseferereplagcod payost 1 the project manager as well as the transcribers: It is sometimes very stress to work for this company as they thrown hundreds of projects (languages) at once with very short turnaround time. role is to recruit native speakers to editlamend the machine transcription: My NEEd YOUR The last 6 months has been my turn, he highlighted any of my honest mistake to HR and some were even under his supervision and approval: Lastly he managed to me on suspension for baseless act of misconduct: The HR team has given me time to explain myself but decided to do a Domestic Inquiry; which has been kept postponed for almost 4 weeks: Due to my good and long relationship with client, one of my client actually approached me directly 2 weeks ago and sent me a screenshot of email from my Manager that have been terminated from the project with this Client and my client is wondering why: Advice , get my The company I'm working at is a filming company and they're filming a drama series. As a person who has thought of doing filming, decided to 1 give it a shot: But during the interview, it is mentioned that have to work for 3 months straight without any breaks. 12 hours of work everyday: And have to stay in their designated dorm: know to some people out there, 12 working hours a day is easy, but to me @malaysianpaygap 1 it's not. But didn't care that much and just decided that the pay and experience is all that matters: 1 Although our starting pay is not too bad, but career prospects as a pooreaccOrepateare perkearentay 1 workers from the page, first u have to register to become an ISC2 Candidate on their page and select Certified in CyberSecurity as the Certification of Interest Once the application is complete anadidateaheyecorpeoside you ] with a voucher code that yoU can 1 use at the check out to get the free certification exam However; do note that if you are successful in the exam and become a certified member; there will be a membership fee of usd50 applicable But the online training and the 6 exam itself is free Birthday off: Work anniversary off: 5 days volunteer leave. 46 day5 of biospealieation  leave. 1 6 months of unpaid sabbatical leave. be used to educate, knowledge, travel or pursue interests. 8 weeks of unpaid leave without exhausting any other leave 8 entitlements: Compassion leave. 26 weeks of maternity & paternity leave. more than 6 months regardless of gender: Life insurance. The insured sum is equal to 24 times base salary: perediafORerageoR Ouoetient 1 Spouse and children also receives the same medical coverage. day day May gain paid Yep Job: Videographer cum Video Editor Industry: Higher Education Marketing 1 Salary pre-tax: 2800 Qualifications: Diploma (Broadcasting and Film) YOE: Fresh grad, but freelancer for 2 cb years Company Type: SME Working Hours: 9 hours a (1hour break included, semi flexible hours), 5 days a week @malaysianpaygap Hi! Sharing this noW; because I'm no 7 Gecdedrito coenpleteary education and get a degree overseas: 1 actually graduated with a diploma in December of 2022, and this is my first full time job ever: day Working OT Tor FREE? was told from my NFT friend (who is currently an well-experienced chiropractor) that this is my RIGHT as an employee to get the right amount of salary on what am working for a project or a company; not working for free. Hence, quitted all the online jobs from all NFT projects that | worked with: That's why the moment started to work as an engineer; need to know my own rights as an employee, not being abused or over-manipulated from managers or CO-founders: So, need your help to get some advices from engineers on whether is it possible that engineers can get OT pay Thank you 1 do also freelance on the side, but | think these past few months for me have been more intense than for your average fresh grad in the field cb freelancing on the side. To give some context; |'ve held this full time job from March to July; and decided to leave to pursue my degree as | believed that was underutilised within the company: During the 5 months of working; for the first four; | 7 freelarce larckgig3 Ganoto arekided} haad least once a week. @malaysianpaygap Please find the opportunity as below: PSA: ISC2 is offering a FREE #Certified in Cybersecurity (CC) Online Self-Paced Training and exams to one million people as csetheeiybersectrientorKferce ] gap and diversify those working in the field. ISC2 is one of the well known association of certified cybersecurity professional worldwide. In fact, their CISSP credential is highly sought after and **holder of this certification can expect to earn an average 6 salary of around USD9Ok-120k annually: Im still at the early stage of working life. Still, I can't help but compare myself with my peers who are studying a sO called 'promising' degree like engineering, dentistry, medicine, pharmacy; law YES, the traditional prestigious degrees ! ) . | am anxious that although I'm 2 already making money at my age meanwhile my peers are still in the ivory tower; will make more money than me upon graduating because they will become highly skilled professionals. I'm still training myself to refrain from such thoughts because comparison is the thief of joy:  my they Software engineer fintech 23, female, malay Less than a year 1 Kl Fresh grad comp science degree 1 Find a job with good salary and demand on ur salary: I do demand my salary from 3.5k to 3.8k as my skill and qualification. Do demand 1 for better salary: Dont be kesian? and nak tolong Customer care specialist for ENR (Energy & Natural Resources) , MNC company (about 35k no. of ealloyealayarBsnc/peliecbeience 1 (IPTA) , 3 years experience, this is 3rd company: Joined during the pandemic on April 2021 with salary RM44OO. On 2022, received a salary adjustment & increment (9%) which bump to RM5634. Even it's 8 not quite a year; still received a 9% increment which is beyond expectation, really can't wait to see what will be getting for the next upcoming increment. Early 2022, we only receive a cash incentive (RMI.2k for me) and no tereuivec ahneeaevelaone 1 adjustment: This salary will be used for our next target bonus: my year Animator in gamel tv series industry 26 chinese male 4.5 yrs KL ] diploma 1 RM 4200 gross including allowance (usually 1 month bonus or NO bonus) Advice for remote workers] freelancers: 1. Create a portfolio website and make it a routine to invite your client to write you a review after job completion, this is the first step towards getting a 1 potential client's attention and scoring a new job. 2 Creating a separate work space in 1 your home is no matter how small it has to be, so it can set boundaries between work and personal life, and keep them sacred. Get fully ready for the and pretend you're actually going to work. Otherwise, you might find yourself back in bed: oneroitheheostochalenginghispectbe I 1 for remote workers when the line between "work" and "home" starts to blur; and we tend to stuck to the computer screen for a longer period of time, especially when work in a different time zone than coworkers] clients. key, day "log Job, industry; salary pre-tax: Researcher; Consulting, RM16,950 base salarylmonth + RM1O,OOO bonuslquarter (pre-tax) Location: KL  1 Geieee age,race: Female, 33 Qualificationlyears of experience: Degree/11 years experience How big is the company?: <50 globally Company type: SME Im one of those unfortunate people. Starting off my career in late 2018, 2020 i was retrenched, my salary was 2950 (2nd company): Literally 1 conieahieb ofiee myehegy lest "Gasd covid is disrupting the business: To survive, i accepted the offer of 2500 (4th company) . Yeap, had to downgrade. Construction isnt a comfortable field, seriously. While other industries can apply WFH, 0 doahemedien OcojobaniegscOlcdone on site  HOWII 90 33.6 k Pav Posts Followers Following GAP Goodbye Wage Taboo Community DM ur current salary anonymously for pay transparency advocate for better salary in MALAYSIA ALL RACES Click "format"; dms are deleted daily Followed by leononymous tshiuannnn 13 others Following Message Email Suggested for you See All E6 do-il du-it Porto Alcio Entrepreneurs' Or_ doitduit value .. JTtSt eoportoalegra dolteul; jutshahale Follow Follow Foll Housye DM TeMiLATe DULLS Rules Format @ 0 0 to 33k followers in 2 days Check out @malaysianpaygap TSGOING and contemplated submitting experience for a long time as don't want to come across as showing off; but after reading multiple other submissions am sharing now because 100% do not believe in keeping salaries confidential: | think it's a practice that companies use sO that don't have to justify why ppl are way are And that 1 does not foster transparency; it only allows sneaky employers to short change their team members. If employers pay fairly according to the set ranges, they will be able to explain to their team why there is a difference in salaries (as there should be based 0 on exp, capability ect) . Another thing wish to share is that think it's extremely important to be picky with choosing the right leader that you work for; someone who will help and guide you through your development; give you the space to make mistakes and grow and allow you to share your ideas and thoughts: my they paid they they Job: Real Estate Salesperson Industry: Real Estate Location: Selangor Gender: Male Age: 27 8 Race: Chinese Qualification: Bachelors Degree in International Business and Management Company: MNC I'd say, quite big 1 Increment history: 0%-2% Working hours: 8 hour shift Salary: Ranges from RM3kt up to RMSOk gross depending on commissions and sales Hi everyone, have been in this field for about 3 years plus now and honestly think I'm doing quite okay in guritessoresaaty Weneber icornejus 1 sales as so many factors will affect the success rate, mainly on people's problem and unwillingness to collaborate. I'd say putting aside the people's problem; it's quite a simple job since it's just sales. Honestly not too sure will be able to sustain and go up the ladder here also. RMSOKImonthly(On Deck) RMIOOK/monthly (in the chamber) (depending how many days spent in a chamber) @malaysianpaygap Average monthly salary RMGOK Sector: Oil & Gas 1 Task performed: Underwater Construction, Inspection, Maintenance & Repair: Pros: Good money, get to travel, meeting new faces on each job Cons: Jobs availability is weather 1 dependent (Monsoon season, meant off) Required me to be apart from family for months, and required top notch fitness level if you want to stay longer in the industry: day Official working time is from 10-7 but you find yourself clocking early like 8/830 to chase after work, and clock out late around 9/10 to ensure all your reports is done correctly: And of course you are not getting OT if you stay back late. Today; saw 1 someone clocking out at Ipm: SMH: The working culture too. WOW: . don't even know where to start. |'Il give you one example Imagine , taking MC is part of your KPI; the more you take; the lower your appraisal rating is. Is this normal in other company? @malaysianpaygap paid My thoughts to all younglings, you don't need to be loyal to your employer: Greed can serve a positive purpose.It's fine to 'job - hopping" on your first 10 years of 1 your career especially when you're still single. progression  Ist Job at 24 yo (RM2OOO) 3 1 Zratlob at 24 yo (RM32OO with 1 3vertobeat 27 yea(RM6OOO) 1 year 4th Job at 28 yo (RM85OO) 15 months Sth Job at 30 yo (RM12OOO) 12 months contract 6 6th Job at 31 ~present (Started my career here with RM15,500. To date salary RM24,500) . My ABA Behaviour Therapist, Special Education sector MYR 2500 (excl EPF and SOCSO deduction) Female, Chinese 2 Masters 1 Company size is around 100+ employee and it's a SME company well-known in Malaysia: From what heard, increments in the company comes after you had been working for a year with them and it is only about RM 200 increment: 1 Working hours are 8am-Spm, but some comes in as early as 6.50am to prepare for sessions (data collection, get toys for session etc): And going home time may vary from Spm to 5.30/6pm dependent if you have meetings Kids come in at 9am and go back at 4pm so it's up to you how you use your time in terms of session Prerera fne hodrlatactaliieg but you 7 are expected to use half an hour taking care of kids (paid) and other half for you to eat (but also expect you to use that time to prepare for your afternoon session as well). they Pharmaceutical sales replproduct specialist 2GNhineac,aemale 1 2.5 years Selangor 0 Bioscience degree Salary basic 3000 Fixed allowances 1200 (including car; toll, mobile, 8 parking, petrol) Incentive 7000 per quarter (based on sales target, assessment; role play performance etc) 8 However; some unfortunate events occurred to my family and need to fork out a huge amount of money: | realised of how little my capacity is to contribute to the circumstances, despite working so hard for years: Stagnant growth had limited my 1 options and it was my poor career planning that lead me into this dead-end situation: made me start to consider looking out for jobs with better career growth opportunities. The comfort zone trap seems to ground me from leaving, realising good working environment is hard to come by: 1 Opinions needed: Will you stay in a company with good working environment but stagnant pay for years? Or jump out for better pay jobs, bearing with the uncertainties? Hi mpg admin! Real Estate Negotiator & Assistant Property Valuator 8 Company: Local company Location: Selangor & Negeri Sembilan Age: 28 Sex: Male Qacfifivaion: Bachelor in Mechanical 1 Engineering Experiences: Retails Sales, Online Sales &Mareketing, Aerospace Engineering and Property Sales: Currently exposed to work field for 2 Selary: About RM2OOO* (Full 1 commission with side hustle) Side Hustle: GrabFood & home tutoring: @malaysianpaygap Martial Status: Married Own vehicle Pilot (First Officer) , Major airline 30ish, Malay; Male 5+ years Sepang SPM (+ flying license, obviously) Basic pay: 8kt+, W allowances 1 Compary went through major 5 'revamp; so paycut was introduced company-wide (except for low earners) _ But basically everyone (non pilots) affected got 5%-10%/ cut. Pilots almost 50% cut, some even more. Not so glamorous anymore: People always have misconception that wedding planners earn a lot but the events industry doesn't pay well + 2 years of no jobs due to MCO. We are still in service line and work long and 1 tiring hours. Please don't take advantage of your planners & ] vendors. We're also only human: It took a lot to get to where am and this salary but overworked, underpaid and lots of colleagues left for other industries due to MCO and have to pick up the 1 slack. Bosses are very good and have enjoyed many perks and benefits over the years but growth is stagnant after a while: Process Engineer; RM7.3k 34, Chinese, f Bachelor's Degree Johor  10 yrs of exp 1 This is a SME in manufacturing: It's my 3rd job. First job was 2.5k. Engineering job pay is extremely diverse: Surprisingly the to be good in this industry is to be communicative. Knowing how to 1 prod people to move is a major part of my work, since most of the work is done by a team of technical and non technical person: Good English & BM don't hurt too :) key racism sexism equal pay equal work +-200 staff capacity: Is a big wellknown screening centre Increment 5% from salary: would consider this underpaid bcs I join as experience nurse only Company decision making based 1 on mood. If mgmt is happy; then approve. If not, you know 5.5 Paid if work for PH Work environment fairly okay: But really underpaid: Tired of job 0 hoping because healthcare industry esp in Malaysia not well: They want tiptop service, at the end we just really little compared to what we have done. paid get get days. paid get 27MMChinese Service engineer; Automation Industry Gross salary: ~RMIOk, excluding travel allowance 1 Gorneistic Feversg with some Qualification: in Mechanical Years of exp: 2 year Company: MNC 1 This is my first company and would like to know what are the other careers that i could venture into? In Penang, it seems like most of the jobs in automation industry are more or less the same_ Deg Eng: My role requires me to do 1 perotmenc poetoititar alainyecnypes (equity; fixed income, unit trust) 1use Bloomberg on the daily, liaise a lot with our custodian bank for reconciliation purposes and am very familiar with corporate actions 1 Acotonting bgokgruna,theg coopany will offer a role in the Finance dept for scholars upon graduation, but / was lucky enough to be offered this role (as was not that keen to do Finance 1 inereisafter e cOntesnship experience @malaysianpaygap Job: Payroll Specialist Salary: RM 7,200 Gender; age, race: 27, Chinese Company size: 500-1000 1 employees, MNC  Average working hours 8 hours a if not peak period. Ist week of the month is my busy period cause of payday for clients. I'm handling few clients from different countries: Knowledge on my clients SOP and country's MOM is a must to 1 remember and also understand: Quick analytics skills are also really important in my role. Work life balance is definitely in play and clients are very caring and understanding: Male, day Im really grateful to to work in Japanese environment and of course it's challenging since I'm a Seeltaugstlyaranesreilanguagea And 1 got this job during this pandemic with initially offered RMSk. It's also one of my bucket list to work in Japanese company without 8 Japanese education background: However; once I'm in, my colleagues kept saying was actually super underpaid with my experiences and skill sets. But for {oe Wwhereoughbesalasv Wstarted 1 RMI.Zk. So I'm curious what is the standard salary actually for Bilingual programmer? get 8 believe it is important to be a problem solver: Learn as much as you can when you where young: 1 Never chase for money: The money will for sure come a long with valueable experienced we had: 1 accepted the offer after thorough consideration of the nature of business, industries and the leadership (my immediate reporting 1 manager) As a Malaysian studying overseas, honestly we cannot compete in terms of intellect vs the students from China they have to study so hard to gain admission to Tsinghua/ 1 Beijing) . However; our strengths lie in our ability to speak multiple     languages: That said, Ithink the Malaysian education system needs potent intervention, especially for the math 1 Why not give more exposure to statistics Vs calculus which is more commonly used by engineers? Why computer science is offered to certain classes only and not to all students? part. Risk Analyst Energy 26M 3+ years Bachelors degree 8 4.3k 1 Decent starting salary but hard to push for increments given that its nanggemenl Bearerao set 1 industry experience before jumping into a non-technical risk management role, to justify higher starting pay: Or just look at technical risk management roles to begin with: pls pls everyone thats seeing this, pls do your research properly before buying a property; do not buy just because your relative brought or you 0 trust the agents, because in the end its your win/loss, not others (I do plan to open a youtube channel on 1 sropertingvestheehe theamer Denple @malaysianpaygap It is definitely a very challenging industry but at the same time very rewarding depending on how you 1 3 inooctakelo Phankthe /ameorgterost player in this industry, one have to be honest; knowledgable, disciplined, determinded and professional: Sales manager e-commerce 26, Chinese, Female 9 months into the job Selangor Degree with 3.5 cgpa Current salary RM6k (including of 2 allowance but excluding of bonuses) 1 hope everybody has the courage to step out from comfort zone, and noticed there is one major problem with the fresh grad sometiares Deistg Goaccarculative: 1 Here a piece of advice from me, work with full force, and unleash ur full potential: You will get what U deserved: Pls: started this job with 2.6k basic. After seeing so many integrity issues, even raised a whistleblowing case myself but disappointing outcome, and my pce oasbanpaler etrly 209' 1 without a job_ 1 Was jobless for 6 months and duit simpanan semua habis before a job in an island state_ Lepas dapat kerja here, after 2 years, | joined another company here which meant competed ngan mat salleh semua: My salary now is close to triple that pay with honlsoatdsteublehgd inrement: 1 compliance programs at Group level here at the company HQ. Dont think /'Il balik Malaysia. city got Discussion: If you feel that you're underpaid, what's stopping you from getting what you want? What's stopping me is: something: MALAYSIAN Davgap Type Game industry still considered very niche in Malaysia still and a lot of big companies are only now coming to Malaysia like Playstation and Bandai 1 raise almost every year ranges from RM8O0-1000 8 feel like am being paid fairly well but want to survey to see if |'m underpaid ? The work life have been awesome with end of year bonus ( 1 month bonus ) constant events and great projects too. I'm fortunate 3 enough that have my job even with covid Im also constantly trying to learn new software so that can go up the ladder faster Some advice if anyone looking to 3 join game industry Degree is not needed A lot of free resources to learn everything about any role you want to apply for Just Prepare a solid portfolio you will land the job  get ThE REALITY OF Negotiation Joined a MNC company (based in UK) as Full Stack Engineer with a pay of RM 8K for 4 years: My very first time working with multicultural team Product owner is from US; and the team is mixed with local and 1 Youatant oooc leaderrena heream  earned this; where you work doesn't matter as long the work is delivered) . Exit due to change in management and company direction. Most of the team quits 8 after knowing the product owner is resigning and the replacement boss is a local and loves to micromanage the team (a BIG NO and red flag). have plan to find new job. Cuz sometimes feel like I'm doing same task repeatedly: Working in SME audit firm, mostly we deal with company with trading goods as business nature_ So basically the procedures are all same idk except if there's unusual case_ 1 But what makes me hesitate is I'm afraid to go out of my comfort zone: New working environment; new colleagues, new responsibilities and maybe bigger pressure, which will obviously came along with great pay: Also |'m not sure if my pay is within 1 normal range for SME audit firm, sO Im not gonna say I'm underpaid or overpaid cuz have no idea. | don't discuss about salary with my closed friends as they mostly work in commercial, FI, or big comp. If anyone has any idea or work in same kind of firm as mine, please share your figure roughly; if you dont mind: Campaign Specialist, Influencer Marketing 23, Chinese , Female <1 year Hybrid workplace (currently fully wfh) Degree in Communications RM3.4k (without deduction) 1 J Tasks are mainly stream-lined & and easy to get a hold of, but since most local influencers are still growing and not all are solely working as a professional influencer; we would constantly need to work over time as most of teekedsgaeterlheiailabter job 1 is done. Also the problem with dealing with not only the client & influencers; but also their agencies simultaneously; definitely need a lot of PR skills and being alert 24/7 to avoid miscoms: Actually most of Grab rider is very good at academics, | once ask one guy age around 30-35 years old, he said he graduated in Civil Engineering at UTHM but choose 8 to be delivery rider since our engineering sector is so cruel and not paying enough: What can | say; nowadays job like this is a must in some area especially Kepong, PJ and KL Centre. don't choose to be rider but if you are happy with your job just go on 1 and do not care what others people said: Cheers. City MPG DISCORD CHANNEL Malavsianpavgap AGILE AVENGERS (WHAIE PRODUCT MANAGER IN & OUT. FEB 20 (MON) 8-9PM. MPG DISCORD. FEATURING 3 AGILE AVENGERS: There's a lot of work hazards in this job. Working in height and confined spaces like fuel tank: Handling all types of chemicals daily that is 1 Corrosave coesnatevenserovidethe proper equipment for us to handle chemicals like that. Also with long [ fenningposure to noise (engine We are always not appreciated and respected by people: One simple mistake of us is deadly: really hope this industry will get better and the 1 oorskaillg arid ackrificeedge us for Chef De Partie ,FnB industry (Central kitchen) Age 25years old Chinese Male Syears in the field Shah Alam 1 Diploma 1 Salary 2.1k, 10-12hours daily: OT up to 14hours mostly when new year Eve Icelebration: 2.1k including EPF; monthly have to use own pocket money to fund companies needs. Promised higher salary but gave position in return for money, petty cash of rmgoo+ still due from January 2022. Retail dietitian, healthcare & food supplements; 3k KL Male, mid 20s, malay Degree in dietetics, 1 year of 1 experience: New company; official this year Increment history: 2022 retail RM2.8k, 2023 RM3k Average working hours: 37.5 hours  1 per week; 7.5 hours per Since there is no increment after confirmation, don't think am a valuable asset: (I'm trying to improve) day HR Generalist 4 years of experience 28 years old/ female Bachelor Degree Selangor RMSkImonth incl allowance Bonus 2 months 3 Being HR in an SME is super tough. Small team but expected to do HR, admin work and anything out of other J department scope-always pass to HR. started out with RM2.Sk which was 0 already low at that time but told myself gettingakearly increreatcoasisteetiy, 1 some increment after both of my probation when changed company: Being HR in an SME, it's either see you as an admin or someone who brings ideas and changes to the company so your pay will also be based on that. Good management will surely make your life easier however it is a constant struggle having to advise on current HR practices while some Managers are still stuck with the old ones. they k &o WHATS Next? YLM will continue to lobby for minimum allowance and push for changes in the workplace culture in the legal industry: They intend to engage with Parliamentarians and mobilize more people to be part of the movement Please reach out to them on Twitter (@MovementLawyers) to join in the perjuanganl My company actually has some pretty benefits, providing allowances for general wellness (health checkups, dental, optical, even gym memberships) and mental health There are definitely times where feel L frustrated and burnt out with the work, and some days where | don't feel like working at all: Thankfully since we can work hybrid, | only go into the office for meetings and to get a change of scenery: @malaysianpaygap good Advice: Be versatile don't limit yourself based on what you know or what experience has been: Instead, 2 think of where you would like to be and how you can achieve that. If your job scope is X, and your manager asks for help with Y, deliver a good job with X and Y, and then propose a plan for Z and execute it (within reasonable means of course): 1 Bhaisyble have achieledobuboather how visible your achievements are. The art of 'subtle wayang' comes into play, and you'd be surprised by how many of these corporate people are great with making small 8 little achievements seem huge (and handsomely rewarded for theml) Overall never stop learning and 2 enriching yourself; you are the most valuable asset that you have: Never be afraid of leaving your comfort zone to what you think you deserve_  your they get get 3 months. Since /'d aim to gain some experience/knowledge dont get discouraged: | work as usual, but something is off when the manager/boss starts questioning the unpaid leaves we 1 take. And we are actually no 4 entitled to ot payment: The management tried to sugarcoat the staffs with the 3% commission as a form of motivation. Note that it only applicable if the 1 job is done and the client has made full payment (only claimable after twice a year; which is on June and December) . If we resigned before receiving our commissions, we are not entitled to claim (even if the job is done and paid). Personally, only aim for global clients it's more enjoyable in terms of creative freedom, sense of fulfilment; & artistic pride. Global clients for fashion campaign (like 20-40 final pics J max) will go from USDSZk camarignLocfertshiopect a lot 1 and somehow creative direction is by them and less of discussion with the photog, they been paying between RM3k-RMSk (would like to know if that's the market rate?)_ 1 On September 2022, | submitted my OYKSHO Competency & the license. My past company is willing to raised it until 6K but it's not the right market price (market price for SHO should be at 6.5K-10K)- On December 2022, resigned from my 1 position on the month where i got Best Contractor award (2nd award in 2022) & got into construction (solar) industry: At past company; my clients recognised me as someone who is very competent (they always refer to me on everything related to construction 1 work) & decided to chase my worth_ got Average working hour: early stage U will be working in shift system as the aircraft need to be operational 24/7, my first unit is aerospace engineer for F-18D, u will be an 1 engineer leading the technical crew; once U promoted as senior engineer, the working hour is 8-5pm. is an exciting job to work hands on with Fighter aircraft; to day job is always exciting, on some occasions U to be on board the aircraft to rectify the 1 snags, to work hands on with aircraft armaments, experience U cant get in outside work. yes, work life balance.  day get get Pro and Con of this career Pro to travel around the world with free flight ticket: Get to land 1 feet on different countries. Contract based job which work about 6-8months a year: Work with different nationalities and to know their countries. This career certainly turns you into a good hands on person, your mother in law 1 will love you so much Net salary is your gross salary; no deduction no tax: get get Marketing Executive at an Education Non Profit 23, Female, Indian, 1.5 years Undergraduate Degree 3,500 (inclusive of allowances) 1 Although I'm a fresh fresh graduate and have no haarkereeg telatedomperienced' 1 People usually assume that the non profit scene should pay their 8 workers minimal wages and staff working in this field don't deserve bonuses or increments because it's considered working to serve 2 the community: strongly believe that this shouldn't be the case and while NGOs may struggle in terms of resources their employees should be fairly compensated for the work that do. @MALAYSIANPAYGAP prior they tried to negotiating with my supervisor and HR so many times. The best can do was gave me 7 1 cheereaceragnoa88,O0ORe. slarv was paid when | started my employment contract in April: @malaysianpaygap don't know if made the right choice to moved here or not thought 1 highesiataryconsicerihg beeteDPi capita is so much higher than 1 disaippointed was wrong: Totally That's all from me: Let's share your thoughts they they Assistant Marketing Dept: Male 2 years in the job Diploma Salary 3.5k 1 think I'm fairly paid, when went for the interview i asked for 1.8k 1 and gave me 3.5k instead: A small company but open for errors and letting us learn along the way: No pay increment and OT pay however; which makes me consider moving on to another 1 company with similar role. Wondering if 3.5k is the standard price or are there companies that are paying more? they Im starting as junior technician in 2015 with basic salary RM13O0 & RM 3k (gross) inc ot & allowance. Working Sdays 12hrs per-week & 2days off. Even off also come to work for overtime. All of us know that engineering field totally scam: Even if you had degree also some company My odfecRis j50p foraotheengineeany 1 Look for MNC. Improve your soft skills: Some of us had good troubleshooting skills but lack of soft skill. Always keep on improve ourself: Every year try to update your resume: Never stay at your comfort zone: @malaysianpaygap day Product designer in Tech KL Qualification: Google UX certification Year of experience: 0-1 Female Chinese 28y/o 1 3 This was my first job after switching my career from healthcare to tech: It took me 2 months to get the certificate (studied 8+hr a day): This was the only offer | get: My salary starts at 3.8k and 1 increased to 4.2k after probation: Fully remote, flexible working hours, work life balance was decent. Job: Consultant Industry: Financial Services (MNC ~3OK employees globally) Pre-tax salary: 14K basic + 1-2 month annual bonus Gender: Male 1 Race: Chinese Age: 26  Years experience: 3.5 1 started in a different industry 1 earning about 4K +, then switched to consulting after one year +_ It wasn't as there was a lot of prep work for the interviews: joined as an associate with a starting salary of 12K and recently got promoted after 1.5 years to my current role. easy, Due to my age, | can't afford to waste anymore time gaining experience as a dietitian; and thus, 1 had give up my dreams and choose somewhere with a better pay: 1 The starting pay for dietitians is 1 usually only around 2k 2.5k which i feel its too low for professionals like us. studied and graduated with a Bachelors degree in dietetics to realise my dream to become a dietitian: However; my dreams were dashed once | came out to the workforce. Dietitians and nutritionists are underpaid regardless of the type of workplace, be it hospitals or wellness centres or cathering companies. We are not protected ] boctoyseguhtoryacosty ke here 1 in Malaysia, people even some healthcare professionals dont see the value of dietitians and nutritionists. And the worse part is anyone can call themselves a nutritionist just by going for a 1-3 months nutrition course and some health supplements companies mlms are misusing our job title for their personal gain. Job: Regional Ecommerce Management 1 Baictsalafyom zerce Details: Female/Malay/30 Location: Kuala Lumpur Qualification: Bachelor in Hospitality from local uni:  My current company is MNC. Has 1 quite a few international offices. thought would offer me a basic salary + allowance RM3O,000/ month or above, But only give me 7 1 RM25,000 Imonth instead: My supervisor told me that the average salary for the same position in Malaysia is much lower than Thailand. Can you believe that?1? @malaysianpaygap 1 supeedisor aotiaing wahytimes. The best can do was gave me 1 chfereaceraenoa 88,CooRe. shasy was paid when | started my employment contract in April: they they they they Research Technician 25, Chinese, M Perang esland 1 Bachelor of Science 1 RM26O0 after deductions and epf It's not bad, but not great either: Just enough to live on with basic needs. Not easy to get raise, 1 unless you really show your skills and get promoted to seniorl manager position. Graduate Program Trainee, MNC from US Chinese Feesalgraduate 1 Base salary 5k+ (plus allowance ) 1.8k) with EPF benefits etc = 6.8k+ For a fresh grad with no actual experience, can only assume that my ancestors helped me land this position. My CGPA was 3.6. Local uni. Not the smartest in class, but 7 currently having the highest salary among my peers: NEED VOUR Hi, Iam in a dilemma and need some advice. Current age: 32 Position: Sales Manager Qualification: Degree in Chemical Engineering Type of company: Manufacturer Market covering: Vietnam & Cambodia Annual target hit: RMZ mil++ Salary: RM55OO (2022) Bonus: Max company give 3 months but recent years since 2019 is month Currently company are sold to China company and the boss is offering to transfer me to Thailand: know it is a whole new market and challenge for me and am willing to accept it: However; company only offering me with salary RMGk and no allowance. They provide me with accomodations but all other expenses are still on myself: feel like it a bit strange with such pay grade Before this, | only travel for 1 week and | only provided allowance of RM5O per of travelling abroad and already feel not right: What kind of salary or allowance should demand if were to send to station in their Thailand company? Advice , day Special Needs Teacher (Education sector) 24 years old, Indian, Female 1.5 years Bathelera Social Science (Hons) 2 Psychology RM18O0 (RM1645 after deductions) J Totally agree w the whole 'nanny 1 with a degree' term, and we're sooooo underpaid with a shit load of job_ Itutor in the evenings after work because this full time job doesn't even support me until the 15th of every month: 1 if anyone here is aware of any job listing in the teaching sectors, link me up Also, pls. started this career with lowest rank and slowly climb up the hierarchy: First job as intern so called Cadet with RMGk monthly for 15 months (requirement was 12months)_ Continue my diploma study after 1 Ceetifishiteand Gaadpetenciy class 4 (eligible for position Sth, Gth; 3rd Engineer After graduate served as 4th Engineer with approx RMIOk 1 monthly and subsequently as 3rd Engineer which is current position. The salary for each position might differ from companies. Believe me it could vary alot.  Product Manager; Fintech, MYR 20000 KL,and South East Asia Female, 28, Chinese 1 This is a medium size start up 1000-5000 employees. In its unicorn stage. Still receiving funding from investor: In plan to go public but no concrete direction: 3rd job now in Malaysia: 1 Claim agent (BPO) > PMO,; Product (e-commerce/ fintech) > Product (fintech) Videographer/Video Director 28, Chinese 3 years + 3 years freelance Selangor Degree in film RM4OOO It's abit hard to judge if this is the right salary as throughout my 1 haveebeen doinge olefeearecchan 7 what my title says: To give insight, an average Videographer make RM30O-800 per (excluding filming equipment) , so if one has many contacts in the industry could 15+ of shoot days. The downside is that you may not your money in time and sometimes you get for the job months later: day they get get paid Sometimes the management would drag the time of payment: For instance, the commission should be in December but they pay in February: If the staff resign before the payment of commission they not entitled to 1 claim it. The workload were too much to handle so | have to overtime. Not to forget there were no segregation of duties. need to prepare the letters as well as doing other admin tasks I was frustrated berloyeeheeaeytecparavedcur 1 rights, and thats when decided to leave for good and aim for a career growth: The manager/boss was sO mad and furious when submitted my 1 month notice_ was scold because are currently understaffed and will cause them trouble: paid they 2 yes, may be on the higher end of the scale in comparison to local markets; but I'm barely average or slightly underpaid by international standards (unfortunate case of a 1 wehkcycerrent role gedetaanktapt have gotten a decent bonus and increment recently despite the negative macros surrounding the industry and general economics: 8 But I'm never not thinking about how else could improve and move forward. 2 Senior Copywriter 25 Indian Bereals 0 KL Bachelor's Degree 1 RMS,o00 Although I am grateful for being able to earn a senior position 1 salary at a much younger age compared to my peers, 1 do think my salary does not match workload: As copywriters, we write EVERYTHING. Everything you see my Senior Environmental Consultant in MNC consultancy in Klang Valley RM8,300/ mth with annual bonus (highest 6 mth payout) FI31C Qualifications: BSc in Environmental Management + studying MBA 8 7 years in same company (incl: internship) Big MNC with small local office Has annual inflation fix, performance increment on of promotion increment: Latest annual increment incremeand 33Sk recent promotion 1 workorgsovertmeedke o projecid off 1 deadlines and this is normally how consultancy rolls: Higher ups respect time offs annual leaves, does their best not to contact staffs during those times: do think am a valuable asset to the company as are happy to invest in trainings and certifications that I'm interested in and planned my career growth not just locally; but also regionally: top and they Safety & Health Officer RM8OOO 1 Sedlengo, Indian Masters Degree, 6 years working experience Green book holder Starting salary (2017) RM1.8k 1 Current salary RM8k Average bonus 2 ~ 3 months have changed 3 companies since c6 my first job. have always aimed for a raise between 15 55 % raise from my basic salary before accepting any job offer; depending 1 on the time length of which made my job switch: ana Web 3 Marketer 20 yrs old, Malaysian (Indian) , Female, Kuala Lumpur; SPM 1 Fix Salary: RM7020 (RM15O Transport Allowance) 1 Benefits: Learning Allowance WFH Set Up Allowance Flexi Hours & Fully Remote It took me around 200 1 applications both locally and internationally to get to where | am right now: I'm trying to be as vague as possible to not disclose my company since it's a pretty niche field within B2B marketing: | switched on over from non profit work since the pay back then was unsustainable, and being a queer person in Malaysia, it's unsurprising that had to live away 1 from my family lol (we're still in contact but barely). Tbh I don't have a lot of passion for the work I do, but do enjoy writing and my current client gives us more leeway to be creative compared to other clients, so find little opportunities throughout work to challenge myself and find the joy in it: @malaysianpaygap JAW During the motion's debate, they faced opposition from senior lawyers. Some claimed that they had never heard of any pupil complaints of exploitation; so YLM's claims were without foundation: Some have claimed that YLM cannot tell the Malaysian Bar what to do. Unfortunately, the motion to impose a minimum allowance for pupils was defeated: Dropdim MOMENTS Job: Admin clerk Industry: Customer services Salary tax:Rmzooo Office loc:Sepang Working hours- Mon-saturday Qualification: Diploma Age:28 8 Honestly am looking for a better career opportunity for the sake of my son: want my son to have better education for him to have a good life. In order to a good education for him i need to work my 1 ass off selling food after finish my 9-5 job. Been working at the same company from 2017 think its time to shine and find a job that can give me a better salary so i can provide more to my family: If u guys have any spot in your company please do share with me. Im in tight position and desperately need new job. pre get MALAYSIAN Paygap What do you think of insurance agents or insurance as career? Type something: Company secretary (Junior associate) 28 years old, Malay; Female 4 years (still a junior) Job location Kuala Lumpur Highest education Professional license Current salary: 3.3K Starting salary 4 years ago was 2.6K. after 4 years, the increment 1 Workingerours Norben8f until 1 forever (supposedly 5.30). No OT being believe all Company Secretaries at all level dont OT. Weekend also need to work. If you leave at 5.30 sharp, everyone will question you: Your AL will never be used. You take AL also need to work. Sometimes we take AL to complete our work. Once i took MC. Boss still requested me to send documents to her: advice, dont be a company secretary: Such a waste: paid. get My NEED Your hiMPG! Would like to understand if 13th month salary = annual bonus = performance bonus? have been in a local company for more than a year now: Upon joining | requested for a 13th month pay: It was in the offer letter and | signed it. It was written that "13th month bonus will be part of the salary package". After my annual performance review; my boss agreed to pay me one month annual bonus: thought it would be on of my 13th month, but HR explained to me that under Malaysia law 13th month = annual bonus: top Advice Consultant surgeon 1 48 Malay; male Johor Bahru 1 Medical degree & Masters in 3 Surgery 13 years in Gov't service 8 years in Private RM 120k-200k/mth 1 loved the job. Traveled so much (2-3 countries per month): Almost never in KL: worked like a (meetings from 1Oam sampai earlyr2obyancegoy poroerotedoiroed 1 jaga APAC to also jaga MENA in 7 months. Traveled some more. Met 1 so many people outside of Malaysia: Gave talks from HK sampai ke USA. Achieved so many accolades internally: Tapi masa promoted realized, was the lowest regional manager outside the US: Like walaupuferereegevalosidama 1 with region VP (gaji ratus ribu MYR) _ dog paid After a year; jumped into a local property developer company as IT Exec with salary of RM 2.5K. Very good benefits with family insurance , medical, koperasi loans, etc. Standard yearly bonus and 1 hereren tanecularoendith vearsst bodek attitude to get promoted: Joined a local startup e-commerce fashion company as a Web 8 Developer: was RM 7.5K. Medical benefits of RM 700 per year: No bonus and no increment: Decided to leave. Pay MPG CAREER CLinig Event Notes Part 1 ft Dr: Meiphing Director of Product(Digital Product Manager) at a SEA Fintech Firm Years of experience: 12 years Degrees in Computer Science Current salary: RM23,500 Only went into real product 1 0 management about 6 years ago. 0 Jumped between start ups and promoted in one that resulted 8 in the huge salary jump. 1 believe jumping after 2 or 3 years is the best way to a pay rise especially when working with recruiters. Right not, the demand for digital 1 product management is increasing: A lot of regional startups are looking for such talent; so do try your luck if you ever get the chance. got get Even though I'm not in a weekly ranking, Iachieved about RM4k per month: Imagine for those who on a weekly ranking in 8 each week: Literally earn RMIO-RM2Ok per month. XD 1 Okeactvhaes axeeprposeing your 1 videos on Tiktok ;) + | started my Tiktok in January @skhllosokrt yet they all From my experience, out of 10 people, only 1 has made good investment out of properties; 9 either is losing more or less. Back then, remembered my ex-boss once said that there are no 0 bad properties, only bad realtors who can't market them properly: Later on, if a product is bad, memang is bad no 1 matter how U to present: But still, a lot are also able to "rebrand" it, and make the bad property sounds good, its just "sales talk" in the end: So pls pls pls everyone thats seeing this, pls do your research properly before buying a property, do not buy just 0 8 besathe ggentelaeeabseughherera its your win/loss, not others (I do plan to open a youtube channel on property investment if there is people supporting me hehehe *camera shy*) @malaysianpaygap try Job: Call Center Executive 1 SaasyrPrezokeRmsyoce (MNC) Office Location: KL (fully WFH basis) Working Hour: 8.30am to 5.3Opm Monday to Friday (no shift) Gender: Female 27 Malay Qualification: SPM @malaysianpaygap 1 Honestly; am happy with my current job scope and my benefits. Company never failed to give uS yearly bonus (at least 1 to 2 months salary) 3 Im working as a waitress in a Japanese restaurant; is a bit tired but the salary is pretty though: Salary: Rm2ooo(basic) , rmiooOt (allowance+incentives) Working time: 1130am-IOpm(3pm-6pm rest) so about 8hrs per 6 working days per week J Hostel is also available. hv been working here just for half [ year and my monthly income about 3k, very high opportunity of being promoted Although the salary is pretty good, but is quite tired working here bcuz the off work time is quite late. Due to this we are always lack of staff So if U are looking for a job in F&b, hope that my information can help you: good day; Due to the graduating requirements of my course, have been interning for 7 months at the "world's largest life insurer by market cap" (U guys know what company it is since it has been featured before)  1 Interning in the Group office has been quite challenging for this 7 months. have been required to compile reports on a very short deadline+the excel sheets must look presentable too. In short, everything in HK is is urgent and everything 1 must be done instantly: Another thing that feel the need to mention is Mandarin is so important nowadays. Most of the jobs in HK nowadays require us to speak fluent Mandarin. 3D Artist Game Industry 26 Malay Male 4 months KL Degree & Curent salary Rm3,300 1 1 used to work for an architecture 1 firm after graduating with a Rm1,800 salary as an Assistant Architect. Burnt out and disappointed, quit a year later without any solid career plan: Pick up some new skills online and managed to land myself a career in the game industry: Over the course of 2 years ++, my job responsibilities expanded beyond what am willing to do with this 1 fuereas_ performancfaievievalyattd in led me to receive ZERO increment or bonuses for the last year: My current salary stands at only RM25O increment from when first started in 1 2oth mytdireci39gpervhsor n3 Pwoblem fast learner. motivate me a lot in the sense where they trust that can take up more critical and timely tasks: am currently already taking over 1 sanagerrgyaskistaordeanagesandy "Performance Improvement Program" (PIP)_ @malaysianpaygap They Marketing Executive & Graphic Designer; Retail Business (Music Related, Entertainment) , RM3OOO Selangor M/32/Malay 1 Diploma,8 years How is the company: >30-40 big believe I'm a valuable assets to the 8 company: Considering issues that / had been encounter so far plus responses from existing colleagues towards those issues. 1 Im happy with the time and expectation: In terms of growth; there are a lot of new things can learn. But stability, is not here. That pretty much anticipated: I'm leading a team of 6 person 1 I'm not sure how my pay is position compare to market:  Management trainee, FMCG MNC 23, Melayu; Perempuan <1 tahun KL Ijazah Sarjana Matematik RM28O0 Dainecikkei rotaaeaeepaetment 1 selama setahun: Ada 3 department utama yang terlibat, jadi saya akan berkhidmat selama 4 bulan dalam setiap department: Selepas habis 1 tahun, saya akan dinilai dan diberi pilihan untuk memasuki department yang sesuai dengan saya. Prorarg ekepektasraertadap kita, 1 banyak ruang untuk belajar ~mendapat bimbingan dari ramai pihak ~kalau MNC , sangat banyak benefit yang disediakan IS wAGE TRANSDARENGY DATA DASHBOARD Live entitlement work integrity + grit The working environment is satisfactory with good colleagues and encouraging direct manager: | am really grateful to have a healthy working environment after 1 ixpedie rcinctioretyeoapparekplace downside is there is no bonus and very insignificant increment over the 2 years of service. Salary and career growth has been stagnant for years with no foreseeable improvement_ believe that constant hard work will lead to desired results, even though 1 progress is slow: in a lot of efforts to meet my deliverables: Verbal praises without monetary appreciation was sufficient to keep  me motivated. put Pilot (First Officer) , Aviation. 28, Sarawak Bumiputera, Male. 5 years + Based East Malaysia: SPM and Flying licence. 3 RMGk++ basic, +allowances = ~RMIIk (before deductions) 4 "Take home" salary about RMIk+- (after deductions) Since the pandemic, most of the salary has been cut due to the travel restrictions. From a "take home" of roughly RMIAk (pre- pandemic) to RM9k now: Lecturer; Private Open and Distance Learning @malaysianpaygap 35, Chinese, F 3 years in current institution Master's degree, RM47O0 Being a lecturer is no longer a prestigious job anymore. We are more like a Bao Ka Liao" customer service executive serving our customers" needs (I mean students). We come to a that so afraid of complains (even though most of the complains are not valid) from students: There are a few inequalities in the 1 system. Master's degree is no longer be favoured anymore, even with many years of experience_ Young Phd holders with 0 experience higher salary scheme and lesser workload compared to master holders: However; master holders are expected to handle more teaching and admin workload. Why? Coz bringing in more Phd holders will improve the institution's ranking; giving them less teaching and admin workload so that they could "concentrate"in doing research (even most of them are not): point got really don't know if this is a good enough progression or not: have a lot of friends telling me could do better: AIl this years, personally stayed for the students or colleagues who needs a boost in spirit but even when your senpai (someone who you look up to so much) finally quits. you feel so demotivated to continue. Everyday is 1 dread_meetings with superior is scary: Also, just been realizing that my boss really have biased and preferential treatment (i.e celebrating certain colleagues birthday (privately) but not yours, attending their wedding but not yours) . 1 had put that aside all this while but. Idk now: @malaysianpaygap Advice anyone? Stay? Go? After was done with SPM, 1was waiting for the Uni offer: But | didn't get an offer from the gov uni that chose (only an offer from private collegeluni) . So | went for STPM instead while waiting for a better uni 1 offer. So |'ve spent a year and half attend Lower 6 and Upper 6. Meanwhile continue my daily school routine, my cousin told me about this commercial diving course located at Perth; WA. So was interested and enrolled for the course_ 3 month before STPM, 1 school and went for the course to pursue the career 1 path (which have no idea what kind of dive work it is) in my mind |'Il be a cool island boy Little that know @malaysianpaygap it's the other way round: get quit As a planner; do everything in the team that is non operational annual operational plans, budget management, all types of reporting, setting team routines, meeting agenda, team comms and engagement as well as anything that my boss needs me to work on ie: projects ) _ also guide the team 3 through talent, succession planning and people related tasks as have some HR experience. It's a fairly complex role with a combination of routine monthly tasks and non routine, ad hoc random tasks and projects depend on what my boss is working 0 on: have built a really good relationship with my boss to the point that can anticipate what he needs and where can help him with his work. And think he trust me enough that he shares with my what he is thinking about certain projects, asks my opinion and gives me the freedom to do somethings the way feel is best. Pharmacist Private Hospital RM 8000 12 years of working experience Worked previously at a government hospital. left five years ago. was dissatisfied with the system in which most, if not all, career advancement decisions J are based on seniority or service years rather than merit: Pronootiotiandosataaiyincreases 1 are some examples. Your superior will always be promoted ahead of you, no matter how good you are: Your coworkers who started at the same time as you but underperformed will always receive the same salary increase and promotion as yoU, assuming no serious disciplinary actions are taken against them: changed my job 3 times: jumped few companies because all of them couldn't pay my salary on time. One of my ex company made sure every 1 employee sign letter that we agreed our salary to be cut to half due to company financial issue (i was naive_ 1 shouldn't have done that; know) . So i left the company within 24hours, because have no money to eat; then went for volunteer job that me rm110 a (Ps: dont 0 leave your job within 24hrs if you could not pay the company back: can claim thru Pejabat Buruh) paid day: They landed this role with 6 years of experience providing market intelligence initially as an external market research analystlconsultant 1 01o5 Yeternadty digfereit-hoerciananydt 1 for a Life Science/Healthcare MNC (1.5 years). @malaysianpaygap My advice for aspiring analysts: Learn as much as you can in your chosen field and build your core expertise in two or three niche areas that you can capitalise upon later on whether that be in another consulting firm or in the V bdsuisery oovetanvouconstantiye update your knowledge and make your ideas known: Be solutions oriented and develop your image as a trusted go-to business partner for influential stakeholders. key Digital Marketing, Fashion Industry 25, Chinese, Female 1year + into this industry Fully remote, Malaysia Degree in Architecture Current Salary RM 5000/month Was graduated from architecture 1 degree, had my first job as interior 0 45 designer; OT everyday; insomnia everyday super stress with all the design deadlines with the pay of only RM22OO. With the urge to change & leave the tiring archijid culture; picked up new high demand skills of the future, courgleceding deipalnderketing 1 Manage to completely switch my career path to what really love , also, thanks to my manager for giving me such a golden chance: Heartily appreciated: Well; find what you really interested in, go for it, work hard & be sure to know your value Company culture is good, encourage employee to growth, alot of opportunities. If you are willing to learn and spend more eftoageriert thal ahereciate and 1 compensate. Although the working life here is not chill and ] easy; sometimes is quite stressful, but no pain no gain&growth lol. Overall am satisfied: Pros: flexible working hour; WFH, people-oriented culture Coprovemens; setk al never 1 your comfort zone here, but good for learning get Pro: additional incomelreplacement leave for working on weekends at the property gallery as supporting staff Con: Not entitled to enjoy pool 8 commission. Only project marketing team and sales admins get to enjoy pool commission: Job description: In charge of drafting press releases, proofread marketing collaterals & 1 pagesaragingnitehsienagerentiog social media, churning out social media content (ideas, designs & copies) , organising PR events (need strorg ties with the mass media platforms) , ad-hoc paper works, to name a few: Personal Assistant to CEO (private & corporate field) 29, Malay, Transgender (7 years +, since 2015) Kuala Lumpur Diploma in T.E.S.L current RM 3.5k (underpaid) 1 J 1 started this career with 1.5k + allowances income. "job-hopping" from one to another to fulfil the so called "life commitments" as im not originally from KL. been surviving here all by myself for the brutalOveeerin kresorfehow visaead 1 by the managements: how wish the employer could to put themselves in my shoes just for a quick second, then they might realize why am too "demanding" sometimes: try 1 do still need to work in hk most of the time. Previously when | was in Malaysia my salary was around 3 rm first job in hk rm 25000,after which the current job. was actually headhunted here to hk by a consulting firm: After 2 years |'m headhunted to join this current company: would say ] tongskoogk oustdtice firors tend 1 overseas and not just locally due to the demand shortage in this field and those with background in consulting are more likely to be hired: If you're in this field do not limit yourself to the local market and reach out on positions that are based overseas. From what F've experience here, the Qepartdnitieigarewplehtwaingive 1 you leverage during salary negotiations 6k, again Job: intern Salary: RMso/day 1 Location: Kuala Lumpur Gender; age, race: Male, 22, Cina @malaysianpaygap This isn't going to be complaining about the pay nor the company: The company is a good company and to earn RMsO/day is a lot for an intern. 1 But the reason why |'m writing this post is because am here to warn people not to be like me 26 year old, contract pharmacist in government hospital (first year) Salary (first year): rm4.2k per month (before epf&socso) Working hours: 8am-Spm (Mon- Fri) , with 2-3 oncall shiftslmonth (sometimes need to work night shift) J Goderstaeed hanoitaissieveielyis 1 exacerbated by the covid pandemic. But as healthcare professionals we're still expected to serve our patients under the constrains of budget and SOP. You'd be surprised to learn that hospital has one of the worst working culture highly stressful, sometimes rude treatment from superiors; very hierarchical and no regards of mental health whatsoever (work life balance is essentially non-existent for newbies like us) Culture-wise. Things can improve. There is a lot of tai-chi culture here. 2 Not my work, not my problem: The messenger of problems is often shot down and made to feel like theyre responsible for it. Its to an extent whereby, you just accept the blame because youre too tired to fight back 1 already cuz then you'd be considered a trouble causer Which is why the tai- chi culture exists lol. @malaysianpaygap Why im posting this: just wondering if there are any openings for work in the same field. Ilove this job but am looking for peace of mind as well: 1 Sorry if this is too long: Thank you for reading: ASSISTANT PLAYSCHOOL TEACHER (with condition) 8 34 Malay Female KL | 7 Years Diploma rm12oo wanted to highlight that it's hard J for a person who have a condition 1 to find a permanent job_ have RA (rheumatoid arthritis ) since i'm 18. No matter how talented you' re. if you have a condition: no company will want you: sound harsh but its true. i'm lucky have a good personality and i can speak malay english and 1 chinese moderately. so i have lots of babysitting job after school: NEED YOUR Hi MPG team, | would like to share a bit of my story and see if anyone can relate or advice. have been working in this BPO company for 4 years as Team Leader; my salary is RM 6600 basic and commission is around RM 1800 per month: The past 4 years have been working it was all good and the last year we have a new Operation Manager who seems to have problems with everyone. This Manager managed to remove one by one every person who speak up against him, either by making it unbearable to stay SO resign,; or move them to different project (client). Advice  Ops they Im a super workaholic, work from 11 1 2, this is the best part of working as a freelancer; the more you contribute, 1 the more you earn: The only downside of my career is the feelings of insecurity about future, especially in my industry, where human translator and transcriber will be replaced by Al one dischplrewhenE comell aboqaneial I 1 planning: day: self Chindian-MaLAYSiAN Working In In return for all this, we live in a really safe part of China. |'ve lost phone twice and had them returned to me. My British wife can walk our dogs at 5am without fear of getting ragut or rompak: When she lived in Cheras, she used to followed by mat rempit who targeted her for robbery and had to walk the 500m from her condo to the MRT with an extendable baton in her hand and pepper spray on standby:  when a bunch of morons tellus non Bumi to Balik Tongsan' or 'Balik India' , 1 laugh: Here in China live a life could never live in tanahairkita. my get So, And seeing OPs of MPG earning big pay cheques and excelling in their respective industries, Iam struck with anxiety; worrying whether can be like them as progress in my career: I'm managing my self doubts, learning mindfulness and practising gratitude as benefit my mental well being tremendously: 2 Im uncertain whether education will be my calling or life long career: see some ex-teachers step into the corporate world by taking up L&D practitioner and trainer roles. These interest me and would like to keep an open mind, not limiting myself and tell myself to have a growth mindset; to acquire skills which /'m to master: they yet R&D senior engineer; F31, Malay Multinasional company (Japan) 7 years working Mechanical Engineering Degree ~4.9K per month (minus EPF; SOSCO, etc) 8 starting salary RM2.SK basic (2014) Shah Alam Year end Bonus (about 3.5 8 months) 1 Good No office politics, japanese expatriates very hardwoking made uS suffering, discipline, good insurance coverage (spouse & prardresionatable company 1 Bad low motivation because japanese always chase yoU, everything ask why & result, result, result. career growth slow; stagnant; not a happy enviroment; stressful, why; why; think, salary wise, it's a starting salary for a diploma holder for the first 1 job, as most of my classmates who are in employment are getting around 2200 to 2500 a month; sO think managed to get a solid starting salary; cb as generally speaking; this type of job is usually not so available for fresh grads with no full time working experience. Not to say that there are none; but back during my job hunt; there weren't that many within the more corporate side of things instead 7 3decidedragacriz p hodsctioperooselly; because the hours are a lot more irregular when there are shoots, and working conditions are usually worse. @malaysianpaygap good Working OT Tor FREE? In my previous experiences in NFT projects, some cofounders of NFT projects (including my high school ex- friend) always give empty promises that will get the salary as a Discord moderator; or give some excuses sO that they no need to pay me some salaries. The only benefit that got on Ist NFT project (from my ex friend and her sibling) was getting a whitelist on their NFT project but didn't even launch their NFT project at all till today: I sacrificed my sleep and my entire weekends just to moderate their Discord server and attend their Twitter live space. And that's what returned NOTHING from the co-founders, other than getting traumas and negativities from NFT communities: they Company info: The parent company recorded RM2.Sbil revenue in Q1 2023. 1 currently attached to the sub- company that handles shared services: @malaysianpaygap Increment history in this job: Ist job: Fresh grad salary RM2.8k + RM2OO allowance: Ist yr increment: + approx RM25O 2nd year increment: salary & allowance 1 Ztajob: RNMAk t35% Current job: RM6.8k (26% Im 2 1 started working as online chess tutor in 2020 with a starting salary of RM8O with 2 students. In 2023, managed to accumulate a total of 7 students with a total salary of RM4SOish: | teach chess to kids ranged between 7-14 years on 0 beginner lessons. Start work from 8-9PM every night because more free time at night; in the morning and evening went for class as usual l choose to work as a chess teacher because chess is something ive been passionate with since high 3 school. Had particpated in tourneys and was active in chess club Teaching chess to kids is very straightforward however it is not easy as there are many obstacles like trying to make them understand abstract concepts and sometimes have to entertain them and not make the class bcring: Im very conflicted. On one hand, hve 1 all the things that everyone was looking for (wfh, very balanced working environment; no restricted to working hours just need to complete tasks, can spend a lot of times with family, in charge of my own time Onneobaten Tyadbrymka Ji bit low. Need to cover a lot of expenses to support wife (still looking for job) and 5 months old daughter: Current salary can barely last till mid of the month: Plan to negotiate salary and reinstates the commission. 8 Hopefully everything going well: Wish me luck guys: @malaysianpaygap 1 HI Greta kusa has MadFOMsia her home 38ay cowp L#huaria CSachs ard love Happior y: is adung" Mala is about voice to connect Usiehh Othocena Mahe & d#ference. EMCEES Certified coach, Yellow 'hepaosionate , My working hours right now is permanent night shift; 12 hours: Working for 26 days Sounds like a 1 nightmare. But could rest a lot compared to work at shift @malaysianpaygap 1 enjoy a lot for my job as could have plenty of time to study more about my career or do something else when there is no movement around. | think 1 the biggest advantages that have is being a multilingual Malaysian. As can interact with different kind of people from different racial background and help them: I also day A few weeks after quitting that job, found something else that's 1 more relevant with my qualifications. now make more than double of what used to and it's almost a rule that we don't contact each other about work on the weekends. It's not a local company; European: Which is why; I guess, their culture is a little different and can afford to pay their staff a little better: Even though the work load is a lot, am at least fairly for it now: Sokagfarthjabc Denatientastjen 1 like me and end up working for peanuts with a company that doesn't respect you as a person: they paid ONE STEp CLOSER To WAGE TRANSDARENGY Title: IR Manager Job: HR in Financial Inst: (FI) Race/Age/Gender: Malay/31 F Location: Central KL Qualification: Degree in Law (Llb) Experience: One year plus litigation lawyer; 6 years in corperztsalary: 8.5k 1 worked in a medium sized firm back in 2014-2015 with a pay of J RM2.6k (Jalan Ampang). Joined FI in 2015 and got a salary bump to RM3.1k. Jumped to another 2 companies to get to where am today: Significantly underpaid/less glamorous compared to my lawyer friends: Traded that for security in teedicaf Zeeeagerer-korunairGfed 1 and 200k coverage for hospitalization for spouse and children: 120 days maternity leave Performance bonus 2 months at least (can go up to 4/5 months if high performing). MpG_ ON Tiktok My life took a turn when my savings from my 'very honest pay' couldn't cover medical bills. tried to work as a locum but my work was eating up most of my free time: don't even have enough time to sleep, only met my friends 2 times last year or 1 even if do, I was giving them a maximum 2 hours before going back to my laptop: never went on a proper trip and even if it was for work. This was how miserable it was for years My mental health also suffered: do, After a month; husband manage to a job in SG too with basic SGD 3.3k. Both stay together in JB now 1 eewtedrrertce doh afiere Aninaster: TBH, Im happy for Malaysia. Im hoping for ringgit to get stronger: Anyway; we didnt increase our commitments. Lifestyle also still the same. Beza dapat bagi mak ayah RMISOO/month: Mertua pun RM15OO/ 1 month: | support adik2 belajar dekat so0/month. Setiap bulan kalau mak ayah duduk rumah sewa kami di JB, makan tak pernah tak cukup. Saving pun more than 3000/month for each of us. @malaysianpaygap get dia, 2 Cons: limited progression on career Most of the decision maker was imported from the origin 4 country of the MNC. Currently changing to 2nd job in Singapore and having better career progression. 1 Note: E&E industry is good when U decided to within the same industry for the rest of yr life. path: stay Prosthetist and Orthotist, Allied Health Mid 20s, Male 1 2.5 years in the job Kuala Lumpur 1 Degree in Biomedical Engineering (Prosthetics and Orthotics) Current salary: RM 3k Malay, From my 3years working experience in China, i can tell China and HongKong companies basecaur Kei experenalaysith 1 Malaysian colleagues so far. As worked in multinational company with colleagues from different background i can really see the difference and understand why are keen to hire Malaysians Below are the advantages of Malaysia In general that i would (KO RACESC, JUST MY OPINION 1 BASED ON MY EXPERIENCES) they key @malaysianpaygap Initially; was offered RM2OOO for the job, but after negotiating, it increased  tnderpai6 beoateeptedhae offero because was impressed with my potential boss and saw her as a smart person who could manage and 1 delegatecebookeffeidtars areidmhing / didn't know editing a video (even if it is just a Capcut) is a skill that could put me in the job market: My boss and colleagues were amazed by my video editing skills in Capcut and sought to 1 learn from me. However; the workload 6 Job: Retail Sales Assistant (preloved luxury bags) Place: Bangsar; KL Basic: RM2IOO (1% commission) Experience: customer service rep 8 cum sales assistant in similar field for 2 years Qualifications: undergrad degree (unfinished) Age: 30 1 Race: Chinese Gender: female  GOAL GathEr CLuB Welcome to MalaysianPAYGAP's social club subscription (S1.99/mth) You may join a month as a kind gesture as thank you donation; or just hang out longer to get nice goodies! Monthly ebook; coaching session, discounts to upcoming merch or partners, early access to our events (always sell out fast), exclusive free events, private network/hangout! Of course, get a glimpse into our behind the scenel Goal Gather is a social club that gathers everyone with the growth mindset to get together to do something meaningful with networking as bonus have no epf too. No benefits, nothing: It's a mistake on my part for taking a job immediately without researching or consulting anyone: All was thinking is earning enough money for university, since I'm planning to pay for myself. Become that independant and reliable kid in the family yknow? To hear my friends fodrriogemhereorlsegivee saeeh1e 1 irks like 'dang im stupid to take this job'. So if there'$ anyone my age out there, hil Don't be like me, and know your worth lol. We may not have degrees or experience, but that doesn't mean we can let people pay and treat us like crap. only focus front/backend programming: And then, long story short, started finding new jobs, received a better job offer from insurance company and my boss decided to counter the offer and give me a similar package. So | decided to stay for a while 3 Salary history: @malaysianpaygap May 2019 Oct 2019 (RM12OO) Internship Nov 2019 Oct 2020 (RM39OO) 6 Nov 2020 Oct 2021 (RM43OO) 10.25% Nov 2021 Sept 2022 (RM5sOO) 27.9% Oct 2022 Now (RM8OOO + 500 allowance) 54.54% Upon training's graduation, got used to work under pressure and 1 could manage the new role really well. | could not do it if wasn't pushed outside of my comfort zone and was given exposure during my trainee days. Lesson learnt? Give all your best and show your worth Make sure you do not feel 1 underpaid too as money may be the main motivation driver for you to continue being passionate about your work:  The nastiest enemy while doing these job is anything on the road which can slow me down: Traffic, potholes; bumpers, twisting intersections, tolls, traffic lights, roundabouts; incidents on the road 1 and many more. Several customers who are very impatient to their rental cars simply didn't understand these kind of problems that face. But most of them are quite cool and collected as long as received their cars safely: get they Stakeholder Management as an ND As someone with ADHD, constantly struggle with jumping into responding to requests immediately vs. thinking them through: For this, when I jump into meetings, as PM ensure the calls are navigated my way: Instead of "What do you need from this team?" 1 go "Here's a sheet of our short-term deliverables, I've made some proposed changes and want to hear your thoughts" This technique is also called managing upwards: There will always be the comments and remarks that don't particularly like. For these, have to pause and doevehishokcimacteetioverallow I project? How does this impact my credibility?" Most of the time, they don't really affect the larger picture of the project and my credibility: After realising normally shift the conversation back 8 to the larger goal. That little typo in that obscure page is not really that important anyway: And yea, a lot of spreadsheets: this, humble two cents is, if you are not in the position to negotiate pay; or leavel if your pay is not the most distressing thing about your work situation, consider 3 discussing with your employers to improve other aspects of job fulfilment (eg: management ] culture and style, individual 3 ownership over projects, flexibility in work hours etc)_ 0 Personally; education is loads of 3 fun and definitely impactful, but it has its downsides too (eg: physical overtime, emotional labor 1 etc)_ Im grateful my employers recognize that one can't pour from an empty cup_ My Job: 0365 Admin Specialist 1 Qioalificatie; Safaware Engineering Bach Degree Experience: started my career in 2007, so already 16 years Basic: RM 13,500 + RM 1,400 various allowance) 1 Location: KL Company: MNC IT of working: Hybrid 2 days office and remaining WFH) 8 Way Radio DJ RTM ANGKASAPURI Ministry of Communications & Multimedia: RMAOper ON AIR hour: 3 You join usually RM4O per ON AIR hour then maybe after 10-15 years it goes up by about RMS per hour or 1 SO_ If you are lucky get lah: @malaysianpaygap won't pay you to come in early to prepare your playlist They don't pay you to stay after your show to prepare for the next day etc They Honestly; for an SPM holder like me; call centre jobs pay you higher than 1 the average: was just trying my luck because know can speak English despite of my lack of experience. The interview was tough, was given questions based on scenarios that require analytical thinking and problem solving skills. | wasn't sure that am going to pass the interview; honestly @malaysianpaygap 1 For working moms, time management and staying organized is crucial. I am a OneNote addict: It keeps me organized. It helps reducing stress and chaos. As a single mom, 1 tried exploring flexible work options, so 1 focused on a remote job while seeking for jobs. Apart from that; my current company 1 benefit is very sad sad with only 8 days 11 days PH per year and medical claim up to RM3O per month (tell me which clinic charge U only RM3O per visit in 20222) The company culture is not the best either where the managers are senior citizens that unwilling to change or learn new thing: It's quite challenging 3 for me to find other company since this job is concentrated only in the industrial area which is far from my house and other companies are not willing to pay more than my current salary and also require me to work on Saturday: 1 AL, Nurse (SRN)/Operating theatre scrub/ healthcare 25/ Chinese/F 4 years Degree Basic RM 1700 ] Ricludec (with allowances 1 On call days + overtime claims varies Shift system with frequent on call days, overworked to the core 6 Working days in a week, occasionally 7 days in a week if on call on Sundays. CompaNv A Or Companv + addition There are resources from outside Malaysia, probably can learn from them online Seems like it's gonna be a pressure in the beginning when joining (maybe can reduce in the future after hiring more people) Might have career progression as join in the earlier batch and promotion Got paid 4.2k in the beginning and after probation, 4.5k per month Thanks in advance B? get 1 Then another year passed, my salary increased from RM 3.2K to around RM 4k due to my deiforeveree 2 secrecbock and 5 1 after 2 years, it is now a 7 digits revenue business. During my 2nd half year here, I've started researching on my job scope in similar industry and turns out can get higher salary with my current job scope in other company: So /'ve decided to tterctooreothaciboane wteran of 7 offer of RM 7k 1 reflected the offer IT 26 Female Malay I++ Experience 4.5K Degree In my industry think there's a lot 1 of unpaid overtime from my observation depending on where you work what project you are assigned to. Working on tight timeline is one thing, but not being for it? Sigh: It's just sad to 3 see this happening, mean in the long run you're going to be the one paying the cost with medical bills and what not: The company 1 can easily hire a new person the next day (and the continues) . Please yourself first paid cycle put 3. Cut It might not feel good initially: But it's to take a pay cut to pivot your career when yoU are young: Trust the process and eventually you will catch-up and earn even more than you previously did. The years would pass by anyway, and it's much better being 1 aowv difyeteate raieatppy. Tannappy 3 years from   1 still struggle to find meaning and joy in my work as a finance accounting professional, but right now am contented with the pay; working hours and enjoy the camaraderie with my colleagues. 1 Perhaps one will find the courage to make a big jump out of crunching numbers: would love if you guys can share where and how you transitioned into a career that's completely different from where you started off from? Pay okay day Job: Permanent Locum Industry: Private Healthcare Salary Pre Tax: RMII-I5k (Incentive based +OT) Location: KL 3x ylo Chinese Female 1 expaerieation: MBBS, >byears It's a private clinic with a few branches: Average working hours: You paid per hour so you can choose, but usually around 200-300h/ 1 month: Shift system with oncalls. No increments as considered a locum: Purely incentive & hour based. Lodging; free meals and parking provided: get Art Director/Creative Designer; in SaaS 31, Female 5.5 years Currently in PJ Degree in multimedia, local U RM104OO (includes allowance) 4 I'm aware of the dire condition of ) our saturated design industry now: I'm posting this in no intention to braglshow off but to tell u guys have been in your place and have 1 advices how to get higher: 2016 RM22O0 2017 RM4OOO 2019 RM56oo 2021 RM7200 2021 RM85O0 2022 RM104OO Malay, hmm-Saya bersyukur - #syukur_ #grateful FEFFEFF patot Mp*rnr Salecy: Rm4_ 29v Xsroll * Scroll* Croll mpernri { ~e U  ~c JRinqooooooon Oute Nor (ob Life A Job on Yottat Jio Gosa money? Croush inner fulfillment? Reclaiming From Work Simone Stolzoff WHAT SHOULD Ne4 T0 Working in construction industry is quite challenging, everything is urgent to site, when raise request order for the items or material, the want the items or material deliver yesterday instead of giving you time to source for the best price. 1 The bosses at our business unit is very bossy style, they just give instruction and don't listen others' opinion and they don't really appreciate support team hard work cause for them we are cost centre  and didn't bring profit to the team they any Since it's food industry R&D, common undestanding it's creating new food products but it's so much more than that: We are the first line defence when it comes to shortage of raw materials, raw material costing issue, products stuck at 1 productfeonoplairiegualisyoissue, production some issue happen etc. Seems like not related but in fact almost anything happening in the company is related to us. It's never 6 routine work, everyday is a new challenge: Personal opinion, if you're graduand of food sciencel food tech and looking for some adrenaline rush challenges at work, 8 you can consider working in RD dept but of course, it can be quite stressful: It's a steep learning curve for me but nevertheless, it's enjoyable quite MODERATED BY Over 1OOk subscribers on Youtubel MR MONEY TV We're excited to invite Peter, the founder of MrMoneyTV to host the sessionl MrMoneyTV is the first financial edutainment channel in Malaysia that teaches you how to save, invest, and grow your money: The progression: 2017: 38k TWD (5.5k MYR) 2019: 3k EUR (13k MYR) 2020: 3.8k EUR (17K MYR) 8 2021: 4.8k EUR (22k MYR) 6.8k EUR (41k MYR) started around 38k TWD (5.5k 3 7 MYR) , luckily met my ex manager who help me a lot; so | can grow really fast: WLB not great tbh, need to work at night; so that | can collab with the ppl from EU: lastly think | am really lucky, | 1 always meet nice ppl and nice job, force me to grow by solving many difficult problems. no advice can give, probably just a good example of survivorship bias. Companv PERkS 0F splunk> RMISSO/quarterly to claim well-being related items from yoga to vet visit for your pets. (RM6OOO/year givenl) SGDS5OO to buy home office equipments Covering fertility and family planning: fertility education, assessments, fertility preservation, IVF, adoption, etc Unlimited one-on-one access to local financial professionals to manage financial wellbeing RMI8oo/month car allowance These perks applicable to full-time employees only; contract workers have different sets_ Disclaimer: This info is shared by @ Splunker on Feb 15, 2023. All the benefits varied depending on the country youre working at: WG Subcontractor: $90/ hour but salary changes depending on how much work done. 4th year: career break: Education sector: RM 3,400 Kuala 1 Lumpur MNC sth year: Medical social worker; NGO, Selangor RM 2,450 Working hours: 40 hours week & upskill myself on the job. exponentially gained soft and hard skills over the years. Simultaneously, 8 studied master's degree by research time while full-time working completed in 3.5years and equipped myself with financial knowledge bought a property when was 26y/o. {nuoupde ikett?helebrare sieacingis not I celebrated enough: believe that in early career; experience matters over earnings (up to a point of course, do not compromise basic needs). Because with the knowledge, skills, experience, achievements, track 8 record and the confidence built; you can surely demand negotiate the salary in next role/company: It worked for me. Didn't expect the 44% jump, but Alhamdulillah secured it. Promised further increment after probation. Based on JobStreet Data Solary eeohanovg Shlergtef Snior 1 Executive in Construction/Building industry: It will work for you too if you are in similar situation. Growth mindset won't fail you: part My salary is probably quite low for my position; but considering my qualification and experience level, i'm quite pleased with what offered: actually started my job as a contractor 1 (not permanent) , and after 1 year and half was promoted to a permanent position: found the ad through Indeed job site, and the local agent helped me to get the interview: My managers that attended interview said that really did well and were really I impressed with me. That's why was offered the position despite having no background and very little working experience. they my they Once you arrive in US, you are also able to work jobs at the uni, which is like $15 per hour up to 20 hours a week 1 1 ended up with a mix and match approach, partially funded by family, partially scholarship, partially part time job_ @malaysianpaygap In the summer would do internships which pay a lot and would further 1 supplement my overall experience: In fact don't think / ended up using all of the 80k set aside for me now that I'm thinking about it Rider Foodpanda, Teluk Intan, Perak MYR 3,000-5,000k pre tax and expense Male, 27, Malay 1.5 years working Diploma in Polymer Technology Quring Rpebocsusel tofeodsiciad & 1 low pay: Delivery rider is risky job even when I'm careful road user: But the good is I'm free to choose working shift; manageable KPI, no delayed work, no boss, able to work alone: Much worth it doing fulltime because can achieve highest 3 performance tier thus higher the paid rate. Average working hours 12 hours everyday; 20-30 trip per 150-200 km travel per thing day, day Still 1 what's the catch? Dedicate: You must be ready to spend up to 60 hours to learn Hard work: Certification is only given to those who passed the project Show up: 8-12 weeks full time for on-the-job training with hiring partners! How Countries ADDROACH Minimum WAGES There are three different levels of actuaries: Student, Associate and Fellow; and am at Associate level: Fellow actuary is the "final form of actuary and are who we calrentglieiesthat.zOo felere are 1 actuaries active in Malaysia: Actuaries main job scope are J Peicengiagdshareholdeoduct Reporting: During peak periods such as quarter closing, we will have to work until late night for first 2 weeks to deliver the results_ But overall would say the working 1 hour is still not too bad compared to other professions like doctors and auditors. they ~Dispute Associates, BPO Company (Customer Service) -23, Malay; Female 6months Kachelors degree in PR 1 1 Salary RM3.IK including EPF; SOCSO, allowance Customer service paid a lot than 1 other sectors especially for fresh grads. Give it a for your first job_ try Hi all, just wanna share that AML Compliance is one of the important departments for reporting institutions: have plenty of experience with different roles in different fields be it insurance, casino, bank, outsourcing company and etc. have now settled myself in AML and continuously 1 develop different skills to help the organization prevent financial crimes.  It is always not that high pay it someone has an analyst role, as was the same. S Also, a higher role requires more reporting analysis and strong 1 decision, strategic and creative to solve problems if issues arise. Good in Data Analysis/Automation to effectively perform your daily tasks is highly preferrable by bosses__. think people will ask about your certs and degrees @malaysianpaygap Sure, 1 have degree in ICT 2.85 cgpa (not a bright student Certification 1)AWS Solution Architect 2) Redhat RHCEJRHCSA 3) Azure Engineer 8 4) Terraform Associate 5) Certified Kubenetes Administrator (CKA) Assistant Outlet Rst. Manager 26, Chinese, Male KL 5 yearst experience in Hospitality Diolomciiseernational 1 Hospitality Management RM2,500 per month J Vororai ororkirgu teyseztaayzof_ off. 1 8 Meals & Staff Hostel provided Been working here for almost 3ovearsmall CompatyuDon  get 1 me wrong; it's a good opportunity at start and so far so good, until now the growing of this company is feeling slow almost stagnant: day get "An insurance recruiter approached me about 10 years ago and asked me to join her team: never even considered it back then: She contacted me after hearing about my business failure to make sure was okay: Among many of the conversations we had, she told me that there is no risk in starting over if you don't see a future in something: You have nothing to lose At the age of 33 with only an SPM certification, her words, this time round; finally convinced me: | decided to take a low risk opportunity provided by her to restart my life" Another reason why chose to move here is the depreciation of our currency: Compared to few years back, 1 can really feel that ringgit is getting weaker now and cost is much 8 more expensive than before to the point that have to think twice to eat outside. @malaysianpaygap The only drawback of working here is we are not at home sO will always feel a little bit out of place. People here are 1 warm and welcoming but it just doesn't feel the same like when you're home. do love my job(to a point) and am happy to finally get to this point where feel valued as a staff of a company: living While / do agree that my pay before was quite high (around RM14,000-18,0000) when compared to other jobs in Malaysia, Ican't help to feel that we're being short changed 8 compared to the industry standard worldwide. Additionally; the benefits provided are like two different world. Both offers discourted staff and 1 family tickets but over here the quota is alot more so | can share it with more family and friends: We are also given more benefits such as school fees for kids until graduate high school: they 8 Job: Executive Industry: Agency Location: Damansara Gender: Male, 29 Qualification: Degree in Mass Comm 1 Gross Salary: RM45OO @malaysianpaygap was a content analyst for the based in Kuala Lumpur from 2022 till 2023. Salary there was good and the job was rather laid back: realized the shift hours isn't for me as my social life was really down the drain: 1 Therobrealizercheeoty tsgnafor me:; So, decided to go back into marketing: Sep Apr Job: Mechanical Design Engineer (Automation) 25 Reccechinalse [ Years in current role: 1 - 2 years Current salary: RM 4100 basic 1 Qualification: Degree in engineering Said salary not inclusive of OT, incentive, bonus and allowance 0 Quite interested at the job market pay Age:  0x0 0} "borrowed RM2Ok from a relative when | was 23 years old to start the business: Within 6 months; it all back The business meant a lot to me: | felt paralyzed as it failed: For the first few years; 1 feared that every step took would be another mistake; another failure. Building another business all over again would require not only a hefty amount of money; it will also take courage, optimism, and All that had none at the time; especially hope:" paid grit: Back to stories, after graduate was appoint by one of company for leading their culinary dept: 1 year after | get offered to work in U.S. Good position and good experience for me. Plus great money too AIl my friends, do what you want: Do what you like But do it in a 0 foacothersake peoplelvbethenk 1 you're special. Even you have money; you can't buy experience. Put in your mind, if you not changed mindset and yourself you will be what you have right now forever: Opportunity doesn't come everyday, before they go. 10 years ag0 i was a dumb boy with a big dream: My English is D 8 (SPM) , my teacher say can't succeed one my lecture was laugh at me when i say my ambition, but alhamdulillah. Rezeki tuhan bagi grab day, Actuaries' salary are highly dependent on how many exams you have past: Exam increments Chavee 0gpend at least 2 hours 1 study each week and 8 hours study on weekend. So if reach 1 home at 1Opm after work, | would have to study for exam until 12-Iam. And during weekend have to sacrifice my social life to study: It could be exhausting, which is why there are SO many Fecpletgeve up pursuing the 0 day Most important is skillset, cert certification just to get chance to  iv session, but during ivv interviewer will drill you up with the questions and scenario. 1 1 have my own lab at home to practice networking, kubernetes, firewall; domain server; etc) 8 Hope this helps future cloud engineers to be Cheers get Alternatively; for someone without the 1 initial "seed funding" from parents, I'd suggest looking into local university partnerships where they may do 3+1, apply to community colleges in the US (a LOT cheaper than public unis that charge international tuition, you can find CCs that charge less than USDSk per year) or look for unis that provide full ride scholarships (MANY exist and many don't really advertise it because 1 it's actually not hard to get, since unis are looking for diversity nowadays) @malaysianpaygap How a Malaysian landed his Mv foot in the global biggest companies June 2,2022 8-9.30pm MalaysianPAYGAP Discord Stage https:I/discord gg/malaysianpaygap FAANG-TASY NO MOREI EVENT BY MALAYSIANPAYGAP Know StoRy Pupil in Chamber/Law firm 24 4months(fresh grad) Kedah Bachelor of Laws RM5OO (we're only entitled to allowance) the working environment is good. 2 it's just the pay that i got, not 1 worth my effort/hardworks: I did wider scope of works than other staffs, but lesser: just 2 because we are not under employment act and the firm is entitled to give allowance as much { as want we this little. sucks. bar council should make a rule on this matter (i.e minimum allowances = min wages) but dont,; bet wont: we, chambering students need to suffer this for 9monthst to be a lawyer: : ( paid got they paid to, got they they THIS IS 4] GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY get paid to learn new skill from General Assembly, EC - Council and Wray Castlel get paired with a job to learn if that's your true calling while still getting paid no more excuses, find out your eligibility + register here: 3rd year: Fully-registered Psychologist (26 years old) Mental Health/Disability Services] Early intervention (NGO) Ist year: AUD $2,785 for 3 daysl 1 seeeramtiacauing55,000-60,000 / year Location: Melbourne, Australia Working hours: 28-35 hours per week 1 Job & Salary: Travel consultant; rm4.5k pre tax + rm700 allowance Increment: wage will be revised after 6months probation: Race, Gender; Age: Malay Female 1 Exyerience: 1 year experience (before this work in town planning industry since Dec 2022) Average working hours: 8-9hours/ rotational 24/7 shift 1 Location: Office in KL, a MNC_  day We don't have punchcard or timesheet or anything like that; we kinda have to plan our own schedule: Flexible hours and working from home is normal practice even before Covid. On normal season, only spend at most 4 hours to get everything on the list done. On busy season, sorketonghoees Orstay holilade and 1 season (thanksgiving through new year's) , I'm free as a bird: don't have Malaysian colleague in my team, that's the sad part: work remotely; my job doesn't require me to go the office. My job mainly involve program management; and annually handle at least 5 main projects and few little I ones. So a lot of multitasking involved, need to plan out everything to the minute. job requires me to interact a lot with external parties and supply chain like suppliers, auditors, tool creators, external organisations (government and non government) from all over the world. stay My Project Management, ~RM2Sk MNC Side hustle Volunteer for IBU, a non-profit organisation supporting parents with young children: We hold support groups for parents, organise playgroups & workshops 8 and work with partners to provide exclusive deals to member: 8 Return? SO. Not paid but have volunteer prenesripsuptorftyfeeang for 1 events and most importantly transferable work skills that are relevant for the corporate world as the organisation is run just like any other corporate. A fulfilling role indeedl Time spent 5 hours a week @udhustlouakris Appx Senior Sales Engineer in MNC company 30 Chinese In sales industry (5 years) Degree 0 RMIIk (included allowance) Start from technician at RMI.Sk basic, found out this is not the life what want, compare to my senior 1 ths poortioororift sbape, vears in 2 decided to change job (no offence) , just I'm more aggressive on what want. Going to service after that found out my own potential & fielent; Decided change to sales 1 Find out own potential & what you good at, improve the skill As long as you know what you want: Change furled is fearless line, Account Manager at FMCG Industry 27. Indian: Male. 7 Months in current job. 3 Overall 2.7 years working experience. Kuala Lumpur: Bachelor's Degree in Chemical Engineering: fuzed kalap dediuctiong (before 1 1 The FMCG industry is a great place to be. Great remuneration package and benefits Plus, added job security: But; my work life balance is nearly non-existent. As much as | appreciate being pacelavenvironmenkioadkaing Gaoll 1 on my mental health: would like to hear from other KAMs. How's work environment and compensation ? Is it worth the trade-off ? Key your Marine Engineer; Maritime Shipping Industry: Specifically LNG Shipping 28, Malay, Male 6 years 1 Location: Worldwide (based on J ship trade route), currently company HQ is based in UK Diploma in marine engineering 0 with Certificate of Competency Current salary: 3.5K USDImonth; 1 all year round regardless of while working onboard or while on leave_ Company is big, it has over 10 production plants. Of course there are other factory branches which occasionally have meetings or events need to go over: Work load is 1 crazy but meetings are crazier however colleagues are very important to assist in work. Working hours are 8.30-6 from Monday to Friday and it's up to you to OT or not: My rank there's no OT charges 6 however below me they are allowed to OT pay working at least 2hrs extra_ would consider myself as an assets of the company as when it 8 comes to technical application, I'm the person giving advice or green light for things to carry out: get But will say purchasing or procurement team is very important to all the project; if we able to source the best deal for the project; we can help company to save a lot of cost Get an offer recently and decided to accept the offer; the basic is better than current basic but overall is still lower if include the allowance 1 However still select to accept cause feel like it is the time for me to step out of my comfort zone, cause want find a company that will appreciate of my hard work:   In conclusion, will conclude good bosses is more important than good company in your career life. Owvcf Buriamon; York 4 fowr Wccs Reclaiming Life from Simone "When We all of our energy to our professional lives, We deprive the other identities that exist Within us Spouse, parent, sibling, neighbor, friend citizen, artist, traveler of the nutrients to grow . ~Stocb " G88a Tanct Qutot Bateling  Tnoujond Enough (ob Work Stolzoff give Career Break The world doesn't end if you NEED to take a career break to recalibrate your life. Just make sure you have it well planned 1 out in terms of finances and how you would like spend your time (plan that backpacking trip, do that volunteer work you have always been meaning to do, take up that barista course that you have always been meaning to do). Most people like your manager; your older 1 colleagues and parents would tell you otherwise but only you would know what's best for yourself IT Analyst in Local Malaysia Bank Qualification: Degree Year of experience: 2 years Female, Malay: 24 ylo. This was my first job after graduated during pandemic June 2020. Applied for the job during pandemic, got accepted on 7 september 2020 and did not expect that Im able to work in a bank as an IT analyst with starting ] salary 3.5k. Aftewvhrohatigooclaoneysoc t0 1 fresh grad. | decided to leave the bank because of poor working environment; culture and career growth: 2022 but feels like 1990. Now, I jumped to work in a MNC company: Salary raised up to 5.8k (with benefits and allowances) _ Still in probation period. Will raise salary more after probation ends Straight forward working environment. But due to technical 1 hectieteocrewc eocieworkrifebeaionces Engineers are competing with form 5 dropouts: Heavy manufacturing industry 1 aqiechhicaly skiled porgoerers .  In order to grow in this industry, problem solving is of utmost importance. Experience gains through the journey: It's okay to know nothing at the first place. Observe what your seniors, managers and directors are doing when you all have a walk down with the clients. Grab whatever you 1 dbgerve ikd askid poevioaseyarhere is no bible to the pest solutions: remain eager on the pest knowledge and technology: Be humble and learn. @malaysianpaygap My last word is wherever there is human; there is pest. Pest control industry will keep expanding in future. Also, After quitting this rather high 7 reward job, I've landed myself in a local company which pays only RM 2.5K for my current ecommerce position. The start of the job is a complete torture as / baeidancowledgene oniy felgiend 1 contributor for ecommerce business in our company: After many sleepless night of learning 1 from different ecommerce peers, I've started to get a grip on how to work more effectively in this job. After almost a year; I've finally been confirmed as exec and my salary bump up to RM 3.2k. Still eaeronore effrariorts obingveveuy 7 single thing possible for my company: Basically work my up till can make decision for my company ecommerce business: Then another year passed, my put way Job: Engineer Industry: Water Treatment Salary pre-tax: 4.8k Location: Shah Alam Gender: Male Age: 29 Race: Chinese 1 Years of Experience: 5 years SME company: My increment from 3.3k to 4.8k in 3 years time when | work with this company Average work hour of 8 hours/day (Very rare OT)  And how much income from daycare and how much from home tutoring?1'l 1 include as caption My income from daycare is RMI.6k, the rest is all from home tutoring! So suggest doing home tutoring more it's so much more flexible and 1 relaxing because you're dealing with one person and not a group of screaming children Most SME manufacturing company (both food & cosmetic) need you to 1 work on Saturday: Since the quality part (QAJQC) is somehow related to HE, usually this job position will carry 'cum' in the job title. Basically you need to do 2-3 job scope, work 6 days per week and got paid 3k on average: Sometimes in food industry; they will advertise the position as food technologist and the job scope will cover all aspect of quality (QAQC), 2 Halal Executive and if re 'lucky' enough, you will be the R&D or production staff too. WFH is not an option if you work as QC as you need to be present in the production/ factory but on the same time there's documentation/desk (QAHE) job to cover too so divide your body well ya 1 to cover all area_ you' This is my second job. got this job through Jobstreet last year in May: Thru phone interview: Started working on July: Working culture here are differ from Malaysia: Everyone doing their job meticulously: also have high expectations towards new 1 employee. Need to adapt fast & learn fast. Before this I'm working in GLC company in Selangor 1 year contract 8 based with RMI.Sk salary; sometimes need to OT but no extra salary: Working 8-5 on weekdays Im working in research area sO sometime need to continue my work at home as well:  They only: VOICES FROM MPG The EMPLOYERS STORIES an SME often times employees would be required to perform functions out of their scope: If everyone was calculative and keeps playing the "not my scope" card it is hard to justify increments or appropriate renumeration.' "In General Manager 1 Lighting & Electrical 36 years old Chinese 9 years experience RM6300 _Anuetn 1 Job: Customer service for cryptocurrency company B 1 Salaourbashift based Female China culture company newly startup just few years old 1 Eoptocudecwances in WFH long term Most importantly; prioritize self-care. Remember to take care of yourself 1 ahdsieppy amerbetter eqelppeded handle family and work. believe my journey toward promotion can be attributed to the guidance from my leaders. They recognized my potential and witnessed my commitment to excelling in my 1 {e8Jonibilimtiprovereniosit y Garives paced company; being pro-active is essential instead of waiting to be spoon-fed with information. So one day, my manager approached me with the offer: was thrilled and eager to 1 embrace the opportunity Digital Marketing Specialist (Ads Ops) 35, Chinese, Male Sgetcy Multinational Advertising 1 RM7,200 (No benefits) ] was a low salary with no benefits in the creative industry for almost 10 years until landed in digital marketing company these few years. 1 have always hated the HR system of evaluating a person's salary range based on their last drawn salary instead of the actual worth of that individual: paid Just imagine if a doctor ask you to go for an unnecessary operation just because the doctor want to hit sales target? Nutritionist has the role and mission to educate public and rise the awareness of healthy and wellness. Not just selling 1 prooletents or any other health I We all know "prevention is better than cure" II health is wealth" But nutritionist is cheap and undervalued. We fall under the trap of "price" that suppressed our true "value" Senior chef 31y.0. Male 8 years in the field Master of science degree e Current salary rm4k + allowance 0 (net pay around 4.5) 0 worked at oversea with triple of the current paid, retrenchment due to covid and hence back to the home country: | agree that the 1 pay in Malaysia is way below other modern countries in Asia, in terms of relativity for the food & beverage business: 5_ neurodivergence manifests in systems thinking; answer the question "What processes can implement for these departments to sync well?" better than "What do say to this department to get the message across?" So on to the questions 1 1. Project Management as an ND On the general project management first For every workplace go to | have a Notion notebook written with Zettelkasten method. Without going into details, Zettelkasten method is an emergent way of taking notes: 1 This is extremely helpful for me to not just be able to understand the scope of projects and my role at quick pace, but it also helps with how my ND brain sees With my notebook, have a birds-eye 8 view on how different stakeholders, parts and deliverables of the project interact with each other: From here, make improvements to the process as needed: My things: Pharmacist Gov Servant 35 Male 1 Malay 10 yrs 7k include allowance Degree 1 @MALAYSIANPAYGAP To overcome that problem, need a partner or sidekick who follows me on personal transport wherever | go and my movement around the also much quicker compared to when run solo. But; the earnings that has been collected throughout the have to be divided between me and the partner involved because let's face it, there is no one 1 out there willing to work for free even your other half is helping you out: Thus, this solution makes my personal income becomes smaller compared to when | was a lonely soldier And so, | need to achieve a bigger target when run the jobs with a partner so that reached my personal goal in a day and a week. city day boy: There are a lot of underpaid management trainee graduate trainee program nowadays. Do your research thoroughly and decide if it is worth to enrol in such program 1 (identify the structure, expectations, growth; bonus etc)_ The graduate trainee program that enrolled was very well-structured but with high expectations: expected you to perform above 1 average in all your rotations in order to get the promotion after completing the training: They provided lots of extra leadership trainings which were compulsory to join too. They To have empathy towards the unfortunate people As a muslim, we were taught to fast to understand how those in need and less fortunate feels Time to reflect, slow down revive our faith n cut distractions n vices Through science; it cleanses the small intestine as your body triggers growth hormones! This job have great remuneration packages but it started to mess with my mental health_ Whenever am taking sick leave, they will 1 to urge me to help out with work: Upon coming back to work, they J will treat me differently for quite some time such as making inside jokes about me, isolate me from 0 any group activities and so on. Would like to get opinion from others on whether | should stay or 1 leave. Iwas afraid that good opportunity like this may not come again in future for me. try My advice: IT is a very rewarding job as long as you have a passion on it. Constant learning and growing are needed if you want to thrive in this field. And I'm seeing changes in the pattern where many company don't care about your 8 degree certificate: AIl you need is skill: For those who's contemplating on making career change to IT, just do it: Go watch free course on the internet eg: Youtube on 'How to build a website' during your free time. E Allocate some of the hour to learn new stuff. If you don't know where to start; just start somewhere. You don't need to make a drastic change. Small and consistent is enough. @malaysianpaygap This job destroyed my health within weeks, both mentally and physically: boss love picking on me and gossiping with her friends. It's really exhausting mentally when you can hear them subtly mentioning you, followed with a loud laughter: J Physically; my stomach health depleted after coming back home anctherertipgoee otheredatoreince 1 have to be there for the whole 9 to 10 hours there, and on weekends you bet its going to flooded with people. This job never gave me any formal break time, SO have days where my meals become cold because customers just keep coming in: remembered eating at 2 and only finished the food nearly 5pm: My Product Designer; Fintech 24M, Chindian 3 years total, 2 years relevant currently working remotely in ASEAN Overseas Masters RM6.5k excluding EPF 1 0 Worked on many freelance projects on the side ranging from RM3K RMIOk+ depending on scope since '20 Progression 2017-18 RM 5.5k (overseas 1 internship) 2019 RMIk (internship) 2020 RMI.8k (PT) - -> RM4.Sk (FT) 2021 RM 5.4k 2022 RM 6.5k KL, me in the job market: My boss and colleagues were amazed by my video  ediringrokillge Goveveandeougkload eventually became overwhelming, particularly when had to take on tasks beyond my expertise, such as 1 develooanged magconsiderabiebsiress and headaches_ Ieven had to go door by door asking around if people want to take ads in my magazine. (I could manage to learn website but magazine is stressful when you do not 1 have any expertise expertise in this area) put Digital Marketing Specialist 31 Chinese Female 3 years KL Bachelor's Degree 1 RM5,000 It really sucks when you work in a 1 big company that reports that that they're making profits year on year even during MCO for the past 2 years but still give you the excuse of no headcount, no badgetteanhevie; eathegheepeapte 1 with lesser experience but with higher salary and you're expected to guide them: It leaves us no choice but to leave for better paying jobs. Who cares about loyalty when re not appreciated: they they you'1 1. Proficient in Chinese and English bet a lot Malaysian will think that their languange proficiency level is just enough to survive and not Eoe etermgeworto hegbrghting in 1 confident to say that Malaysian's english proficiency level is actually above average in China/HK/ Vietnam/South East Asia, it's more than enough: I'm the best example of having poor English in Malaysia but consider good in China/HK/ Vietnam: Also, Malaysians can cosiparek t0?oteer langhcges also 1 a advantage. key to we have to deal with 8 customer for their inquiry and manage their sales forecast and future planning on their marketing activity: N Often travel around for seminar or exhibition within Asia region: Started as fresh and got promoted to senior: 1 Pros: can learnt a lot of Analysis skill, stable working environment and work life balanced high bonus pay: Day day WORK SLAYER SUMMIT WHO IS JAN 20,2024 AARON TANG? REASONS WE INVITE HIM AS SPEARER: Full PETRONAS scholarship Currently; the GM of Luno in Asia Pacific He's been offering his learnings and insights   consistently for 9 years through his Mr. and Twitter (X): Truly authentic voice, with passion for growth not just for himself but for the people around him. Aaron has always been a boss and mentor that truly cares about the people he works with. If he sees potential and effort in you; he will do all he can to advocate for your growth at a company: Even if it means moving you laterally: Hes made a great impact on my life and | aspire to be as great of a boss as him by an anonymous nomination blog, Stingy, My first job is in Shah Alam, with basic RM2,200. LDR with husband. Rent a 1 sinagginge arjoorakuthernyear; move to malacca with basic RM3,000 (working in a different role) but atleast near to husband. Enough but sometimes still struggle due to husbands pay is not fixed: @malaysianpaygap Started to find a job in singapore 1 owerdoa} idectrenkijog titSGD 4.3k basic: Move to singapore, rent a single room. LDR with husband AGAIN: Talent Acquisition Associate, FMCG , RM 4000+ 1 Kealaleuz1Chinese Fresh Graduate (2022) Working in one of the biggest FMCGs in the world, I've been with them for close to 1 year as an internl trainee (with intern pay): 6 months uni requirement, 4 months voluntary 1 internship; and then converted into a full timer recently: | graduated late 2022 and came back as an intern for 4 additional months. got had to leave. Because my job isn't paying me enough to feed my current family or even start one: 1 had no proper reason to transfer back home since I'm unmarried, no property, no critically sick parents: 1 fuatheringatudiengutog {veser likgic to study when you don't have proper financial support and KKM don't give raise in gred for pharmacists with postgraduate qualifications. Program Manager Indian Female, Penang 10 years of experience in this field Basic RM91OO F3tedronth lbonancand conaany 1 shares given annually Work from home permanently in 1 penang 5 days per week job, Sat & Sun Long working hours during month end, can go upto 15 hours per day sometimes but very flexible and understanding manager based in 1 My work full of calculating stuff and love it. Plan to retire in this company: off Job: Air Traffic Controller Industry: Aviation 1 Siacargnces6 500 (allin inclusive (ATC salary range depends on the location of where you are stationed, your license rating & your current grade) Average working hours 8 hours per shift per day Location: Malaysia 1 Gaalfication: Bachelor Degree & ATC @malaysianpaygap license 5 years of work experience ~ the biggest advantages that have is being a multilingual Malaysian: As / can interact with different kind of people from different racial 1 background and help them: | also exposed to fire alarm system,and also ERT knowledge when there is an emergency: also exposed to traffic directing and surveillance and access control skill: @malaysianpaygap 1 The cons would be long working hours and some assignments are one man show: So you have to be always on alert and be ready for any kind of challenges that is around the corner: is Of Of at As it all, in MEI PHING CAN YOU HANDLE THE TRURH? Mei Phing sharing known Head for corporate her Governance no Chartered B-S truths Expect Bank; an Standard ex- MP only her has crisp, negotiation seen real-world workshopl strategies Currently a first year student in Degree Mechanical Engineering at IPTA. Previously doing my Diploma in Mech Started looking for 0 online job opportunities during covid times as my mother is the only breakwinner in the family: My dad wasnt able to find any job after years of searching due to his age and experience so he only work as a 3 part timer: While my mother hasnt receive salary ever since covid till now with a private company: My family financial crisis led me to look for online opportunity: Eng: It is quite sad for educators in Malaysia: We can't survive for a living being a teacher or an 1 educator We spent a lot of money to further studies, courses, and training but our salary is lower than average: As a GM in school, you need to do everything: If you are "lucky enough", you are GENERAL WORKER as well: I do think we can 7 do better for our education stakeholders Most importantly we need to envision our national education blueprint and provide assistance to those who passion about education 1 ATM, am 31, just married: Hope to have more opportunities and advancement in my career: Increment history in this job: Ist job: Fresh grad salary RM2.8k + 1 Ricreoealowapprox RM2SO 2nd year increment: salary & allowance total up to RM4k+t 2nd job: RM5.4k (35% Current job: RM6.8k (269 @malaysianpaygap Average working hours: 8am-5pm, Mon-Fri. Usually every 2 1 weeks will need to join late night deployment which on average lasts 2 hrs: The example no. 1: ABC Company takes GGG Company's agency, and ABC only has GGG security at the workplaces: @malaysianpaygap 1 Example 2: ABC Company takes GGG Security Agency and also forms their own in-house security, so this company has both in-house and agency security: Example 3: ABC company takes GGG agency to work as security at the 1 company; sometimes GGG will also Sub to HHH agency; so ABC company has two security agencies working at their building; both wearing the same uniform_ NEEd YOUr Hi mpg: | would like to ask an advice on behalf of my friend who's currently working in a elevator company: He's a on site technician. He's been diagnosed with Cervical spondylosis for about 8-9months now: He's planning to move on to a different job which he might or not. He reached the limit of handling the pressure from what the company has been giving for the past few months: What are the possibilities and consequences that he might go through? Need some advice for anyone who's been dealing something similar like this? Is it alright if he Or there's another way? Advice ,. get quit? Telecom engineer 27 Worears 1 ] Selanigoy Degree in engineering J No work life balance. Hv to carry around Gptouseverraeuariagowance' 1 15 for weekdays 50 for weekend/ public hols: Job: Software Engineer 1 Salagy pre-viatiQMG 8k Location: Selangor Gender; age, race: FI27 Malay Qualificationlyears of experience: Local public uni- Bachelor of Computer Science (Software Engineering) This Sept would be my 4th year anniversary as a working 1 adult & Ist anniversary at current company @malaysianpaygap When did my job hunting, ! heard that people can easily get an offer through Linkedln although they' re not applying it: 1 was curious how they get it, then | decide to 8 experience it by myself. There where met Primed for Success on Ll, a community for a fresh graduate like me to interact with experience people in the industry: {ncervievorandelse htrstaboeservt 1 ourself online, especially on Linkedln: Iam glad to meet volunteers like them,; who are willing to spend their time for FREE every week. @malaysianpaygap 28 Following Followers Likes Edit profile Goodbye Wage Tabool Let's comfy talkin' bout work 204k strong on IG CS First time taking wage transparency to the p streets be like: PAKISTANI CHEF AC SALARY MALAVSIAN Paygap get Pharmacist; Healthcare, Sk (net) KKM Female, 29, Chinese It took me a lot of courage to share this. Some of my colleagues have commented that I'm a fool to give up government sector job to pursue a higher salary job where I'm expected to work much harder; 1 pericc o; mneancnjsyebility For a workplace but truthfully, was bringing work home everyday until sacrificed a lot of aspects of my life for so many years: | saw people around me moving on with life while was static and wasn't getting more payl promotion/bonus with the amount of work completed compared to others: Reporting AN Untair Dismissal? What disheartening was when asked my team leader whether there is any way could fix it, perhaps a warning letter is also fine. "Iwas quite shocked when CEO told me this_ have talked with him and we put a lot of consideration in this decision: Sorry to do this last minute_ he said: My TL also never discuss about my performance with me. One thing that the JPP officer did point out was the company seem like trying to hide the main reason of my termination: It could be the company is not doing well and they use those" reasons as excuses to terminate me_ Imagine having needed to monitor as many as 30 or more different aircrafts at one time, either by monitoring from the tower (for aerodrome controller) or at your radar screen (for area or 1 aoroaenc oretroeerseparateasurie same time, making sure that all of our instructions are verbally correct, and all the read back by the pilots are correct as well: @malaysianpaygap In addition to this, sometimes we have to manage our air traffic while also 1 facing abnormal or adhoc situation as well such as adverse weather conditions, runway or taxiway closure, air traffic flow control, airspace closure, emergencies; aircraft ~ diversion, etc etc. The list goes on and on. Our GOAL: Malaysian Pay Gap MAed an Salary D  Rece Medan Salary by Lecation 25 PAV Gp Submnasion: Ltltz ubntust Merllan Sdlary by Industiy VeaWuie Medun Salary by Qualitkation Wcmi RRCt ed 3a Avorage Salary by Role Dvcuuudy u Medan Salary b, Gender Vuntll Am nnn Ytnen 0yMere reth dxteroue Ein hunllcgeaytcy Mhnlal tngl Wnouet Iuejo OEpietulre Iraw Delai CU ntnledotcenuuisrtgu Mdoran Tenunaruun ealn< Battontrould tFLall t] Umtncod [ode coxolne Jelein  dala Muitdaaem Coctu Quta teoooturuinte nrt] Indn E [ Intadan 4rd!Glr Marg te ulareuenoetn Plus, being an introvert and sorrertee teorikingoriaironrieent gives 1 me that peace of mind: When you live in a world where society favors the extroverts, you have to take advantage of your introvert strengths and use that to build a career you can work comfortably in. 1 Working hours is actually either 9am 6pm, or 1Oam Tpm: would show up at 9am sharp but 1 the doors would still be locked, so would eventually have to go home after 6pm to ensure meet enough hours. But it didn't matter because even when | reached home around Zpm, my WhatsApp would be buzzing and I'd have to continue with my work until late at night. All for RMI.8k before deductions The boss' final words to me was "good luck" in a very passive dgnefusiver tcne experiencen 1 because it has taught me a lot about patience and standing up for myself; but i seriously don't think the salary is worth the working hours and workload. Group Coaching: Your Own 1 a 2 E Away Plan For Your MEET GRETA Small Break Session Belief with Walk Session Goal R&D, Semiconductor; RM7OOO/ month, Penang; Malaysian; 29 years old, 2 years experience Qealeacationope) in Science 1 Officially working hour is 8 hours/ and flexible with no @ micromanage as long as project complete in time. Company 9 (MNC>1OOO employees) allows new ideas and innovation instead of just doing NPI. Doctorate help me a long way Degree-->rm3ooo-->continue PhD 3 years --> RM6OOO - -> 1 yearded byoouveor Vaie is 1 added: believe salary is lower compared to lecturing (IPTA) but the potential of going further is more_ day Junior Agronomist (Fertilizer Industry) In Malaysia 25, Chinese,Male 1 Year in this industry Klang Valley Bachelor of Science RM 3000 (before deduction, no bonus) 1 Found this jobs during pandemic =time; early 2021./'m not sure _ whether the salary pay is up to 0 the range or not. Since, looks like atiodlyueaoe} aJauhere before: 1 wish my sharing could attract more people to share about salary in agriculture field: This jobs need to travel around in Malaysia to visit customer plantation But due to pandemic, | end up sitting in office most of the time.(What return is lower back pain and neck pain Just Sharing here_ get DAY1 Taylor's Lakeside Campus, Subang an 20 x3 Panel Talk x2 Workshop ft. best role models learn and practice, who walk the talk livel Corporate Ladder 101 Networking Workshop Job Hopper: Who Loses? Negotiation I01 with live Career Switch: Legit Steps demo Masterclass Extra FUNNN x2 practical tips only all Getting the Most Out of Professional Clothes Swap: Your Paycheck ft Mr: Stingy Bring 5 to Take 5 Home Mr.Money Coffee, prizes to win, network Labor Law: How to Protect with companies Yourself Jaya day It did take slightly longer than a usual internship of 4-6 months to secure this role, but my advise is if you know what you want, and if money isn't your top priority right 1 aitee gcacaiation irean seae woset to the company using your best asset as a fresh grad; time and agility: Caveat: Only stay if you know there's room for career growth (ie. a 1 conversion): Have an honest conversation with your boss, tell them what you want, and always have back up plans: Look out for other opportunities; keep your options open: Secondly; our MONTHLY wages can be made in a WEEK if we did the umrah services ourselves Which did. But then Covid happened and had to pause. Of 1 course, couldn't do this if didn't go thru the hard work of knowing what needs to be done to make it happen: I'm glad did, but | don't think can do the work myself anymore. 0 Thirdly; money is hard to come by: 1 When was working with this company; had a lot of options for side income. Selling dates, perfumes, carpets, tour packages, personal tours, etc etc: It was great, but also didn't appreciate money cuz sO much cash flow going in. Lifestyle inflation is 1 definitely one of our greatest financial destructions. And learned that the hard way: got My job scopes are as follow: 1) managing social media for medical centre  Qhenever possibie and editing 3) develop website (wordpress or google site) 4) design printed material and digital 1 Sisdevelop a magazine, basically one- man army thing 6) public relation reach out to the potential advertisers for magazine, authors for magazine 7) photographer (if there is event etc 1 people always ask for me) Thoughts: Our job as a PO is to provide prosthesis (artificial limb) or orthosis to patients: As a local PO, we do feel the pay 1 gap with international PO. By average local PO earned RM 2.5k 0 earredharotile Regkaticia? Riabpa 1 month: It is because local PO did not get international recognition by International Society of Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO). Which to me, the higher ups need to resolve this issue_ Anyway do enjoy doing my job. Regional Manager; Digital Marketing Medical device company 3 years in this role Overall 7 years total experience in Kigitg Valley 1 Bachelors of business 1 Current salary: RM145O0 (of which 2k are allowances) Started off at 13k Keen to hear what other digital 1 marketing managers are making have a sneaky suspicion my salary is on the high range but want to know if Im wrong? Job: Assistant manager in manufacturing industry, station in China Age: 26, Chinese, Female Working experience: 3years bgsdesic qualification: Degree in 1 Current: RM16.Sk after tax and 1 accommodation I'm not here to show off im earning more than my peers at this age Im just here to encourage Mlalaverer tveookrforoportunities 1 opportunities out there with attractive benefits targeting Malaysians Hello everyone; | recently just started working in this company a week plus ago. 1 Before the interview; my boss asked me to send payslips from previous company: Is that normal? But sent it anyway: At the end of the interview; was 8 promised a basic of RM22OO with 2% comm But a few days after; the boss changed my basic to RM21OO, with only 1% comm: Told my sister and close friends about this. And 1 they all strongly advised me not to join this company: It's obviously but decided to join in hope to new experience in retail at upper class area. And to learn new things. 2 gain Unfortunately like many others, | graduated in 2020 when covid werehrelucdntao hrorgoaniouldnt 1 find a job in Malaysia. family doesnt live in Malaysia anymore J and we're based outside in ASEAN: While searching for a job binged grinded on Youtube tutorials for UX Ul and FE content; joined a startup contest, mentored others and built up my network tmefobeleatea2o2o  Grinding 1 really did pay off back then: My Weekly salary also is the pro of this job_ Idon't have to wait longer my salary compared to other jobs that are paid monthly. Claims from tolls & fuels used while running the job are also with the salary: Unfortunately; no EPF & SOCSO cut 1 which could be problematic in the future (hopefully not!) Only monthly insurance is automatically applied if 1 do a job in a month which is not great as it sounds but at least there is a layer of protection: for paid What you know is based on your own sample size. Now how big is that sample size? Work is just part of your life unless it's ur passion There is much more than to reachthetop just started learning how to properly utilise my leave. used to burn them in the past 7. We're here to live, learn; and create meaning touched on a lot of aspects, and each aspects could take a whole ther page of text to cover in even more depth_ 1 think the main point is, yes there will be challenges and many decision points in navigating the us journey, but it's not too bad as long as we can methodically think through it: There are definitely no impossible choices: @malaysianpaygap 1 In a nutshell; feel the US is extremely flexible and a lot more liveable and reasonable than think media has been portraying it. More Malaysians should be exposed to it Some firms like Big4 will subsidise specific papers/certs, and you can plan and choose depending their terms: For my firm, we have an internal tech and certifications pathway defined for the team (work in progress ficrwe aertergsesayeeyve benefitheo 1 the staff and the recognition L.e: renumeration)). have to say; if | interview a candidate and helshe can demonstrate that they are taking initiative to self-learn and it's already brownie pointsla good start. 8 Experiences hire: all the more you should: @malaysianpaygap What do | look out for as an 3 interviewer? (Caution: entirely personal opinion compared to the aforementioned points) personally prefer the candidate (fresh grads) to at least demonstrate experience and understanding in security; be it internship, part time, or actual work experience. 1 Elaborate on concepts and demonstrate business acumen (cyber is not just an IT problem) . If the individual is "hungry" that would be observable in the forefront during the interview e.g: showcase your efforts, 8 learnings (labs achievement; CTFs) or your passion: on do, cyber key Senior Executive (Training & Development) , Education Roncrorese; Female 3 3+ years of working experience 1 Bacie gaaciate pogree 3 People need to makan, period: 2 0 Just knowing that someone else in the industry earns higher is a good start; but negotiating that raise and proving it is a different job skillset entirely 5 all the best to 1 youl So if you are doing a 3hr show ON AIR but you come in an hour early to plan your music for the day, that you get RM12O even if you stay 3 back after your show to prepare for the next day etc @malaysianpaygap 1 If you do 5 shows a week that's RM6OO a week. So one month that's maybe RM24OO. Apparently every year no budget. Government ma: Usually money they spend on more important things. day paid Anti-bribery; Integrity; Manager 45, Malay; Male Variuos experiences (22 years) Klang valley Degree in Accountancy; Certified Integrity Officer; Certified Fraud Examiners, Chartered Accountant, ISO Lead Auditor Bmnedom a &unt esouivg 1 with a starting salary of RMI,5O0. Invested a lot in professional education/certification. Really lucky to have bosses that really support my growth and development. Trusted on my skills and empower me to do things. Planning to take my Master in 1 forensic accounting and financial criminalogy: Don't be complasent in one post or at one company: If you don't see any progress in 3 years, move out! Don't waste your time. Been working for 16 years with IT, i dont think my career progression is good, most people with 10++ years already climbing to manager level or above_ 1 company is good, been with the company for almost 7 years: Either i am to comfortable or to afraid to jump to higher level: dont know because personally feel comfortable, as long as work and finish my job_ Dont make any 1 problem at office, then its all good for me Maybe readers can advise for 16 years experience, should stay or maybe try something else. did tried 3 to apply other companies and interviewed as well but seem always failed. So, i am not sure now what to do and to feel: My for degree students: all the firms offer ~ RM4k PwC is the only firm where the salary is standardised, regardless of whether you have acca or not: 3 regardless, its still good pay: if i were to stay in the big4 for 10+ years or SO, i'Il probably be close to being a partner and get some sharing: but i'Il probably move out [ and go into AM or PEIVC by then (for own interest) . Im also planning to take CFA soon, but I'm considering whether to use own money (no bond) or firm's money (4 years bond). advice? profit Any "Employees believing and walking the talk in the company's core values and vision sounds cheesy but so crucial in the success and growth of an organization:' In today's world, employees (humans in general) need to be non-resistant to change to keep up with market conditions. As a boss, my dream is to develop employees internally (personal & career skills) and promote vertically rather than external hiring: Happy employees which are not afraid of open communication with their bosses leads to employee retention: CompaNv A Or Companv B? Handle 2 project ATLEAST since not enough resources in Malaysia, but it can be reduced if hire more staff in the near future as they're planning to expand Most of the projects required going to the client's place, claim reimbursement depends on whichever is lower of (Client side to the office, or Client side to my home) the Staff seems have a disinterested/annoyed face especially the HR based on online interview like no smiling; probably because busy on the projects and working but don't understand from HR side, but this is just my assumption as | didn't join the company yet High stress levels due line of work as we work hand in hand with surgeons on patient's lives, frequent callbacks around 12am-6am. Rarely going back on the dot because of understaffed 1 situation, facing many work hazards such as sharpl splash 1 <injuries, Frequent exposure to radiation (X-ray) , body ache, biohazard diseases. We often face sleepless nights too_ What do you guys think; are nurses underpaid? MpG BOOKCLUB 'Superb -Oliver Burkeman, New York Times bestselling author of Four Thousand Weeks Go6d Cro5sh Reclaiming Life Work Simone Stolzoff GIVEAWAY from Panel doctor is basically like an inhouse clinic where we cater to 1 staff of a company: We decide if the staff is fit for work and manage their illnesses: We also cater to oupatients but not as much: We have a sick for mini emergencies and send to tertiary 1 hospital if required.  bay have mostly been in-house designer: Ididn't pursue in agency because know the tough pay there. Agency guys you have my 4 respect. For designers who are serious to get more pay; this is my serious advice for you: J Find your VALUE: Joining a startup or a company; what is your VALUE to them? are you just there 1 to follow people's direction? are you just there to 'attend to visual needs'? or are you there to help the company grow? help the business grow: contribute ideas beyond your jobscope. Scale your A lot of Malaysians are true loyalists one might say; especially when it comes to working with national companies; which is not 1 always a bad thing: But if you know that you are competent and 1 can survive working anywhere with any multinational colleagues, then it's best for you to apply for other companies out there that 1 would pay much better for your skill and value yourself professionally: 36m/Chinese Been working in construction industry as purchaser for almost 13 years, currently working in Sarawak: This is my first job since graduated: 1 Current pay is RMZk + 50% site allowance, the pay is good and can have good saving since working at Sarawak with higher pay and lesser expenses: 1year saving here is  equal to 5 years saving in KL. Senior FE Engineer German MNC (We have base in msia) 29 C Male 5 Years 8 Work Remotely in msia 3 1 MIS Current salary: 42k MYR including relocation allowance, RSU 46k boser year; probably 1 month 1 think / am a bit kind of spoil market, as in wasnt start working from MY. Due to the work visa issue, relocated to MY with the relocation allowance. people know that this job is not easy as it look, we are prepared body and mind while on the road, exposed to element and other road user: Sure the pays great but need to very long working hour sometime exceeding 90 hours per week, sure anytime can "cuti" but we are not paid on leave and sure we are free contractor and not tied to single company but none of the benefit of worker under labor laws. To people who like to become like me, 1 never ever have a mindset that you can work in this kind of job until you retire. This job is at risk of automation; like the advancement in autonomous vehicle, drone delivery: To make it worst this kind of job offer no upskilling opportunity other than become a gps So learn new 8 marketable skill, learn personal finance, become futureproof: As for me intent to work fulltime until have enough savings to start a business, my interest would be oil palm plantation as see the future in this field, hope living July, 2021 Prime Minister Yoshihide Suha: "We must increase the average hourly rate of at least 1,000 yen (MYR36) to help non-regular workers earn more and correct the wage disparity between them and regular employees" Local panel: "We fear that wage hikes could worsen small and midsize firms during the pandemic but please give us some time to revise the proposal according to our economic situations: August, 2021 Minimum wage successfully raised to 930 yen On average There are many ways to finance a U.S. degree economically, and ultimately it 1 sievetios on the individuals financial @malaysianpaygap For me, my parents had saved up an education fund of roughly RM8OK for my further studies: applied to many universities, and finally got into the uni  ended up going to with a scholarship that covered half of my 2.5 years remainder: The other half was covered 1 by the 80k plus part time jobs on campus and other awards would pick up along the way: My role as a travel consultant is to attend clients who have urgent cases that need to be done <72hours. The job is quite stressful 1 as everything is fast-paced and to be honest it's not a place for a slow learner: However; my team makes the working environment bearable as everyone is practicing hand - holding rather than pointing finger: 1 The seniors are all ready to guide me asa new joiner & Im grateful for the healthy working environment bcos know can ask them for their help if need anything: My goal is to migrate to other country to 1 experience different kind of lifestyle, so I'm looking forward for the opportunity to be transferred to the overseas branch as the company have other multiple offices across the globe. First; staff probation period is 6 months to be confirmed staff is way longer than expected for a buffet restaurant Our company do have berfos farce Staates fentive 1 achieved sales target for 3 months straight;, we will able to receive the incentive based on individual 0Performance which we has @ctei oedmidaDelednaySersieqation 1 notice period until early January: Here's the funny part is that; my boss told me that it's theirs teossioesigned gtaffsarative for 1 program for the current staff for their loyalty with the company which find it just an excuse. This is somehow unfair to me and other staff who had resigned: Title: Associate Actuary Job: Actuarial asst manager in AgeiRacsefGendecozaJchinesel 7 Male Experience: 5 Years 1 Location KL Degree: Actuarial Science Qualification: ASA from Society of Actuaries Salary: 14k, bonus around 3 months (I have jumped company 0 once) Moving forward, finished my diploma and continue to food industry: was joining association (culinary) and it's help a lot of career path: get to know chef all around the world. believe some people will say association is just waste a time but for me, it's a best platform to showcase your talent: ioierngtionapetteer ccaiearsy 1 other country to be a youngest judges at one of prestigious competitions in asia. been travelling to euro, african, asian to presenting Malaysian food. It's wonderful job. But realised lack of knowledge and paper (education level). Yes you can success without certificate but believe me, the more highest 8 education level you have the more you the opportunity and people will see you on different perceptions! my get Job: AML QA Manager (Banking) Place: KL Basic: RM 7.5k 1 Experience: 5+ years at financial crime (AML/Fraud/Screening/EDD)_ Qualification: AML-related L professional qualification, knowledge in Data Analysis (Excel S Power BIPower Query and etc) , Degree in Actuarial Science Age: 30 1 Race: Chinese Gender: Male 8 Ima few months in now and I'm starting to feel the burnout: As of now; 1 have done more than 30 proposals and I'm currently handling around 8 1 proposals on top of handling the execution for another 6+ campaigns. Other than that, it's also normal to have work texts coming in around 9 or 1Opm. Sometimes; I go to sleep and wake up thinking about work. If Im on MC and there are proposals due that day; I still need to complete them 1 becousfordoe aexheytaireacollravees lot on their plate: @malaysianpaygap 8 Im working with one of the agencies based in Damansara right now and | mainly manage the end to end social media campaigns and influencer 1 marketing: handle tasks from proposals to executions and PCR Hence; there is a lot of liaisons between the clients and suppliers. On top of handling the campaigns, we still need to do the finance side of stuff such as onboarding the vendors that haven't worked with us before, and 1 Jesus; the umber of documents we need to collect: Job: Airline pilot (first officer) Industry: Aviation Salary pre-tax: Ranging from RM 8 50,000 to 55,000 (tax free) Location: Middle east Early 30s, Male, Malay Qualification: SPM and flying license 7 years of work experience @malaysianpaygap 1 worked in one of the low cost airline in Malaysia a while back before joining the company I'm working now that is based here somewhere in the middle east. was offered by previous college for full scholarship Bachelor Of sc in hotel management by KarangKraf foundation: A part of that was also doing some side income to cover my expenses during study: Im facing a lot of UP and DOWN: Workiageao Ohefcghotelirndoskrys 1 almost 10-12 hours a Most of us have no break, no weekend off; no family times and even vacation: We had the lowest paid, long hours working; work in hot kitchen and still doing this because of passion! see a lot of young chef left the industry reason because get more money outside 8 either work as a rider or retail shop. Our industry are surviving: But no bodylparties speak out on this things. day: they AM A WoRK CAREER Switch (n PROGRESS AFtER 30, "At the age of 30,the business I partially owned failed: It was all I had and knew throughout my entire 20s,and for the next 3 years I was completely dependent on some of my savings and husband: Lost and insecure: "Ithank you for your effort and help, after all business is business 1 hope you understand this." Those 1 words are the last thing my boss said to me which hurt me and accepted it and not to look backward. As a loyal employee of 1 bssondiarytime {ateeutoonove 1 on and thank you for open my both of my eyes for a clearer view: No more next time and I'm feeling reodiyategideyby day and sti not 1 Position: Program Manager Experience: 4 years and counting Salary: RM3,950 monthly (including wfh allowance) Location: Penang Working hours: flexible Benefits: Annual leaves, bonuses (twice a year) , medical card (cover 1 child birth, dental, optical, fitness activity fees etc) , stock options, OT, allowances, annual increment (depending on your performance) started out as an assistant with 2.2k salary a month and worked my way out to the current position: work with MNC and report directly to corporate 1 (US) , which means working hours are slightly odd. sometimes have meetings at odd hours, we had to accomodate everyone's time zone and take into account the time difference But my official working hours still follow 8-5, Monday to Friday: my have freedom to do things a3 # berieve: mY deovecontributes 1 a little to a well-read and better Malaysia: 1 But | want money to rent a studio apartment with my partner: | want 3 to travel: | do not want a RMS price surge on Grab to upset me. 1 want to stop checking my bank ba/aCs and asking: have wasted 1 my my Female, 28, Chinese Ist Year (25 years old): Trainee / Provisional Psychologist Disability services (Private sector) AUD23/ hour 1 Psychologiat: Trainee Provisional Rehabilitation centre (Private sector) AUD2ZI hour Around 60-63k annually Background before working as travel consultant: Graduated in Bachelor in Tourism from a local uni & worked in a Town Planning industry for RM17OO a 1 month as a part timer (only work for 3 days a week)  decided to become a part timer because even if Im a full-timer; the basic is RM2OOO pre epf socso. Stressed of being underpaid + high 1 workload, | decided to leave the company as know there won't be a chance for me to demand for higher pay due to different in study background: 1 The company I'm currently working for is a travel management company; not like a normal travel agency: We manage corporate  travel and not for leisure. everything need to be very formal and professional: So, December 2021 Thai Labour Solidarity Committee: "Hey Labour Ministry, it's time to conduct a study on the impact of increasing minimum daily wage as prices of essential consumer goods and food are increasingl" February 2022 State Enterprises Workers Relations Labor Ministry: the studyis done.A Confederation: raise must happenl "Were with TLSCI We will get back to Leti's raise the rate you real soon with to 492 baht the finalized (RM63)! amount n "Hey understand that am luckier than most folks, with parents who pinched pennies all their life to send me 1 abroad: However do want to emphasize that the path | chose was almost tailored to my individual situation. @malaysianpaygap The university chose was of a good enough ranking and had a good CS faculty, and decent reputation, | saw 1 value in the price was paying to go there. (Another tip is do your research, everything is online nowadays, and easy to look up) Korean Leasing Admin, MNC 28, Chinese, Male 2yr working exp Kuala Lumpur Degree graduated in TOPIK 6 (highest Ivl of Korean Proficiency test) 1 Current Salary: RM5SOO (before deduct) 1 WFH based, working hour from 8.30-5pm: Job scope is just to screen Korean documents and manage the system: Workload can 1 be finish 3-4 hours each then can relax for the rest of the Not sure if the pay is good for a korean language job, because there are higher pay around 7-8k for the job using korean language. Maybe shall explore more opportunities. easy, day, day: 6. Have your rates changed from newbie to now? Curious about the shift and flow of your career: For sure_ 1 price based on the client and the usage, not the time spent (that would just penalise me for working fast). The bigger the clientlproject and the more places the art will be used in, the higher the fee. So as started to more well-known clients, my rates went up too. Litebox has a good crowdsourced database of rates to compare plus illustratorl creative peers will share info about what clients pay SO we can look out for one another. Most experienced illustrators are happy to discuss rates in private if you reach out to them, think get to, Job: R&D Asst Manager; Food 1 industry  Salary: 5150 + travel allowance Location: Selangor Genderlagelrace: Female, 27, Chinese 6 Qualification: Degree in Food Science Years of experience: Total 3yrs+ (current company 9mths) 8 Need Hii mpg, would like to ask for some information on behalf of my father: He's going to retire soon as a secondary school government teacher and he plans to go back to the workforce after taking some rest, preferably education related field. Wish to ask that how's msia working environment towards the retirees? Can't really much infos online so come and seek for public's help to share their experiences and opinions. Thank you so much in advance Advice,_ YOUR get Due to the contract based nature of the job, most companies would only pay you when you are working onboard but never while 1 on leave, because the leave pay is included in your salary: But there are ones out there that would pay 1 you all year round and pay really well: It's very convenient to be on leave for months and still get the same amount every month: | 1 left my previous company for the shorter contract (3 months on 2 months off) and the good pay: paid ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGER Smelting Industries 4OF; Native Sarawakian Degree in Engineering & Master Degree in OSH 16 yrs work experience 4.5 years in the current role) Rcremenonshysedaon 1 departmental performance hence the mantra "jadi boss kena baik" really playing the key role in 1 getting all subordinates to be supportive & contributive to achieving Dept KPI & meeting Management expectation: Overall good work environment & can have work-life balance during 86wokendi F1di Working Hours is 1 just want to know; Am | underpaid?? Top skills. Collaborate. understand what other teams are trying to do. ASK. This is what a lot of 4 designers DIDNT do. they dont ask are shy: they are scared: 1 think don't deserve what are asking: would never to where am if i dont ask. Ask your boss once a year: Ask when 1 going for interview: Be FIRM and stand your ground: Ask for 25% 30%. If they dont give, move on, ask other people. No ask no get: they they they they Boy, get honestly love my job as there is no minimum or maximum hours to fullfill and can choose my off days every month: usually choose to work 20 days a month and can about RMIS+k. You more if you 1 work more so it's a good initiative: 1 save a lot of money on fuel, food and lodging as well: Oh and bosses are soo nice and trust your opinions and decisions. 1 Only thing is you don't EPF SOCSO as a locum but I'Il gladly trade it for the time flexibility, good money and work life balance. Plus you can self fund your EPF and get SOCSO on your own: get get get 1 Ecommerce Senior Associate 3 1/2 Years experience in Ecommerce industry SpcoringRentOWNax (GObonus 1 26 Y.O Hybrid WFH / Office 1 I've started my career completely different from what am doing right now: Initially working as a property agent /'ve quickly gotten a good result averaging around RM 9k per month for 7 month: Despite my good sales 've decideors? contsctenoe doie atigned 7 with my property job has to offer: quit Process Engineer; non muslim, BEng.Chem (Hons), 8yrs in minerallchemical industry 1 Northern Region: Started with Myr2800 and moved to MNC for better prospect: Syears down the road, earning salary at Myr65oo. 1 Work culture is typical Malaysian politics Not survival of the fittest; but the cunning ones prevail: Straight ones make the cut often though: Male , Exp CompaNv @ OR Companv B? IT Company B Company Based in Thailand, Indonesia so just start a new company in Malaysia: Can see that the company is growing Staff in MY: So far 5 (including 2 Sales people + 1 HR) Location Kerinchi, needs 1 train to arrive there so takes around O.5hour on average to go there (1 hour per day just for transportation) got WFH but need to go to the client's place most of the time Quality cum Halal Executive 30, Malay; Female Almost 4 years experience Racheor of Food Scencse + Pot Cert 1 Halal Executive Salary: RM 3300 (gross) ; As usual, STEM graduate got paid peanut: My first job in 2018 paid me Rm1600 gross. 3 years later; after 2 jumping from company to company, from food to cosmetic industry and finally manage to score RM3300. Believe it or not this is considered a high pay for this profession at SME companies The professional certificate Halal Executive alone can cost RM3OOO+ and it is the certificate that you MUST have in order to 1 become a certified Halal Executive (HE) approved by JAKIM. It is not an easy job to get the food/cosmetic to be certified Halal by JAKIM and yet you all still arguing the halal status after it's already being certified Halal haiya. manage a trading company dealing with industrial goods which requires semi-skilled workers (can be trained). Employee headcount went from 6 in 2022 to 10 in 2023. Blue collar ranges from MYR 1.7k-5.5k. White collar from MYR 3.5k-11k. Reality & expectations are quite aligned as would like to think that we pay a fair wage (definitely above typical SME market rate)" Job: Lab analyst Location: Singapore 25 Gender: Female Race: Malay 1 Chelfisatjon: BSc Applied Salary 2900s-5000s Working in MNC company in O&G 8 industry: 12 hours shift; have OT, more OT more salary: The only cons is no work life balance, even on rest must work. Age: day Additional info: from the research i've done by asking my friends from other firms, 3 here is some basic understanding of the salary structure in the big4. For ACCA affiliates, Audit Associate 1: Deloitte RM425O  1 EY & KPMG RM42OO PwC RM4O5O for degree students: all the firms offer ~RM4k Nutritionist Food industry 26 Chinese Male 2 years Klang Valley Bachelor of Science Nutrition with Wellness Basic Rm3k, exclude allowance 1 pessoobwiths baeic Rm4oles I commission: We are misused as a tool of hitting sales target by selling products to people who not really need it. We are asked to use tactic of speech and some unreliable analysis to scare people with their risk of health so people would buy our products_ Ialso don't see sharing getting high salary here as flexing but think it's good as it creates awareness for the pay we should get or nego for: Thanks to those who post their salary letting us know it's achieveable and their tips 1 pesauforomfantloreadingehese reason wrote expected salary 8.5k that time yeap and it at last luckily Also by knowing its possible when the recruiter tell me the client have budget + reading prev cases from 1 MPG knowing its achievable (other reason is frm reading previous cases, knowing that usually will go for nego so kinda expect fr 7-7.5k but need some buffer so | initially 8.5k) too, got put think wasn't particularly clear in the first post. I guess writing before coffee isn't such a great idea: |'Il clarify a few things first before answering the questions: 1. Official diagnosis is Autism 1 Syndrome Disorder (ASD) Level 1. Previously known as Asperger's. 2. degree is in Statistics from a local uni 3. Iam based in KL. The future office I is also in KL 4.Iam not an expert in the "working as ND" area, so my words below are merely my experience. Some 8 suggestions may not be generally applicable and shouldn't be taken as professional advice. Do seek a professional if you need help. My For example, you can hire a master degree with years of experience at 4-5k or you can hire a fresh blood starting at 2k: There is no such title as 'senior chef' our world follows the code of commis demi de partie sous de cuisine. believe the position 'senior chef' is a glamour 0 that to fill the position of sous /de cuisine without paying the right rate. Underpaying the profession will the industry for real. In no 8 time, those who studied and excelled would be forced to jump into another industry to feed their family; while the industry will be filled with people who have no fundamental knowledge. spoil Material planner; port industry Female, Malay; 28 ylo 3+ years experience Gbrent= salary: RM3.4k 1 1 Bonus: 3 to 5 months (depending on performance) Increment: 3% annually Insurance coverage: RM4Sk (inpatient) RMZk (outpatient) Eramanaeiore ,eaveav days 1 MC leave: 28 days Hospitalisation leave: 55 days would rather choose someone that has willingness to learn and passionate about the domain knowledge than someone that does 1 the work as purely work: Knowledge and skillsets can be trained, but attitude is hard to come by: Also, if you can't communicate well (oral and writing) , you should put in effort and improve. I've learned the hard way: S There is little use of your knowledge and findings, if your clients doesn't understand you: (Of course, there are 3 clients that do PT as part of compliance requirements and see no value but that's for another day) . @malaysianpaygap There's more can share, but that should be sufficient for now (and I'm 1 not sure if this will be well received) _ Regardless, hope that my sharing is able to give you an additional glimpse towards the job/industry; on of the prior posting, and benefit those that 8 are interested: Thank you: top have met some Dashers out there ranging from many races, whether old or young; men and women, timer or full timer: We don't spend so much time together since everyone is rushing to their next job or simply getting back with their 1 families. But we made every moment we met is valuable and full of quality talks and sharing opinions on how to be a good Dasher specifically and how to be a good person generally: part Job Graduate Trainee Marketing (permanent role) Industry Telco Location KL Gender- Female 1 Age 27 Race Malay Years of exp 3 years + Started in 2020 as a graduate trainee in a MNC with a gross salary of RM4.6K. Completed the training in 2021and got promoted in a 1 xarkegigcxarteterhevob in52623 with a salary of RM8.5K gross.  AIl the salary doesn't include performance bonus: Performance bonus ranges from 2-4 months. Job Motion Graphic cum Video Editor cum Propmaster cum Event Assistant Manager cum Floor Manager: Salary RM26OO 7 Experiencs Selareors Working days 5 days, standby on weekend: Basically need to handle the whole operations of every event: Handle contractor; designer; etc. From graphic to productions and to last output: 1 wonder if my salary up to standard: After started working, realized that it's not what I've imagine. 1 don't to involve in that much of 'sales' part. But more of like a shopkeeper: 1 What I do the most everyday is wiping off fingerprints on glass door and rearrange the bags after clients try on. Most of the time; |'Il just be alone in the shop scrolling phone 8 and do nothing: | feel useless and hopeless as there's nothing to do at all: boss wasn't always around for her personal matter: Worst part is no OT pay, and cannot get off 1 this Christmas COS my boSS won't be around: PLUS no double pay or leave replacement according to my boss, COS just join the company get My day During my bachelors as of my course to work in Europe for 1 a 1 year internship: was great 0 when converted (but expensive living costs in europe ofc) but 0 experience was still worth it: Did a short internship in KL before my masters began which again, great experience which eventually Product eeiging in UX UI/ 1 Design: part got Pay Salesperson in Ipoh Female, 18, C Salary RM6/hr Experience : Spm graduate A private owned store. J hoork Onhoeekeresydadayith 10 1 week: Although did say Im a salesperson, handle everything from restocking; cashier; etc because I'm the only employee in the whole store. #Opentoadvice On LnkeDiN Etiquette Hi MPG ,  have a question. I am using "#opentowork" frame on my linkedin profile eversince years ago (the frame that have wording #opentowork in green colour at the bottom left of linkedin profile picture). Recently my supervisor and her boss added me as their connection on linkedin, and demanded me to remove the frame that am using currently without informing me the reason (I guess aftaid that another opportunity come and will leave the company). My question is, do they have the right over my personal linkedin? It would be better if you could advice which act (if any) should refer to for this. Many thanks in advance. they they Senior Regional Business Development role E&E MNC 8 Age:28 Experience: 5 years+ N Annual package: 70-90k (depend on sales situation) + 4 months bonus + 21 days AL Regular working hour Ist job ever since graduated, the 1 work itself required you to handle global market of sales and business development task within APAC region. Salary (includes allowance, epf etc): Probation RM2250  Gferitryation RR8OOOO Working hours is 8.30am to 6pm, mon-fri @malaysianpaygap 1 would say ama valuable asset to the company; having graduated in health science. My clients are primarily from the wellness and medical centre industry, and am responsible for creating social media content based on factual medical 1 insights. Logistics Exec in an e-commerce MNC 24 | Chinese M Almost 3 years of experience in logistics industry Based KL Bachelors Degree Basic: RM3350 get paid for my first job RM2.8k 1 as a fresh grad. In less than 2 years, resigned and joined this company and got offer RM3.2k. After the increment this year; my basic is RM3.3k. First job wasn't have many workload and Second job have daily task to do and during some times might have to 8 work 8 hours non stop (but barely) . would love to hear the current payout the industry or how much people get paid with similar experiences! Thanks 3 Wanna go to the mall? Having 1 dinner at home with your wife after a long day? Too bad: Someone needs to go to the hospital, can you handle that? Our guest is lost; we need you to bring them back to the hotel. A guest didn't get what helshe for: It was a tough 1-2 years with this 1 company but /'ve learned a LOT: Firstly, was paid wayy below market rate (didn't know this, this was my first official job lol) Market value for this kind of work is SR 5-6k which is around RM 5.8-7k. 1 paid Although was in an internship role for longer than what was required to graduate, 1 chose to stay because 1 1. Im in a company that aligns with my career goals (ie. Corporate, FMCG, HR) 2. Iwasn't treated like an intern; my managers and bosses (with time), allowed me to interact with actual stakeholders, managing actual 1 company projects, and making actual impact to the team: was content Hi, 1 Aoe; Eacengender: 25,Malay; Female Education: Electrical Engineering (IPTA) @malaysianpaygap Experience: 1 year Current salary: S$4,300 RM13k Current location: Singapore 1 Previous IacatorRMaiacca Base in my experience, 3d visualizer is not only come from Interiorl Architecture graduate. They may come from Animation background drafter; graphic designer and product designer as welll | As a player in Interiorlarchitecture industry; to gain your salary faster never attach to 1 company for long periods! but the important things is keep the skill growth, always 3 learning and be passion in everything you dol Thanks MPG! WORK SLAYER SUNTT "IM JUST A WORK SLAVE" NONONO.LET'SCHANGE THE NARRATIVE COME JOIN US FORA 2-DAY IN PERSON SUMMIT TO LEARN FROM THE BEST MINDS ON MAKING MALavsian WORK, WORK FOR YOU: Pavgap Submitting wage through form: allows us to have proper data visualization to push for real change, we need to show policy maker something more than Instagram posts, right? enables better experience in checking in where you stand in the industry: In the form; we provide a link to a master Excel Sheets for you to access to the data 24/7 SCAN QR MalavsianpavCap 1 1 dwoavaNHISKV7ww TO RSVP 3  Air Traffic Controllers used to be listed under public service, thus the intake was conducted by JPA. However; with the direction moving towards privatization, all ATCOs in Malaysia are 1 AviatiocrHitehoriteof wavayeaCCAAM): @malaysianpaygap In my opinion; the current salary range of atco in Malaysia is quite low; considering how critical this job can be. Our job is to ensure all moving traffic (aircraft; helicopters, airport vehicles inside the apron etc) inside 1 our area of responsibility to be separated as per the stipulated minima, away from any collision course by communicating with pilots or ground operator via radio comms: Aircraft collision can be catastrophic, ~ and our job is to make sure this does not bound to happen at all. want to also add that we didn't Diwali or Thaipusam off simply eeployeeherethierehe or iraran 1 companies like that? I'd sincerely like to know: Almost all of the products the sell that's not at their physical store & website have defects ranging from material peel to the actually apart with every wear: The management kept blaming COVID for their over-accumulation of bad stocks but even their "new release" items have defects. Fast interinatiolies foshioe Hosiges ie 1 Hermes, Valentino and Gucci but this brand actually has a product with the Balenciaga logo upside down: was baffled when saw it listed on their website. get thing falling Just a small note for future generations: only 2.8 CGPA for my degree and studied in a private university with PTPTN loan: Yet; i got a great opportunity: Dont give up in life , dont stress too much: Take a lot of side courses and improve your skills: Hindspeamis; EnglskgesMalajrathe 1 more the better actually: Be confident in what you do so that 1 your personality shines during interviews. went through six level of interviews and only then i got the job. were deciding between me and another girl who excelled in her studies but my manager decided to go with me because she liked my attitude and how presented myself: Also my degree is in Education but 1 Im doing business/finance related stuff: So if you did not get a job on what you studied for; its ok: Start over: Spend time working on yourself and concentrate on your mental health: got They Malaysianpaygap Share your QR code so others can follow you TikTok MALAYSIAN Paygap Reporting AN UntaiR Dismissal? When recall; the company did lost 3 clients in June and are actively looking for new clients. I'm not surprise at all if they fire me in order to cut cost: Im in a dilemma about this now: Should report them or not? Is it worth to in the time and effort? Or should just close my eyes and move on? definitely don't want to go back there especially after reporting them but request for reinstatement is part of the process At the same time, do want them to know what did was inappropriate. Truly appreciate if someone could share their experience or provide advices in the comment. Thanks for reading they put they 1 Job: Freelance Ghostwriter and 0 Chess Tutor Location: wfh; KL Gender: Male Age: 22 Race: Malay 3 Qualification: Diploma, w 2 years of experience Salary: RM850 1 Job: School General Manager Age: 31 Bachelor in Business Management Master in Education Salary: RM 5500 Iam currently working as a full-time 7 SebroooCerpeerienc agere Ecucation industry: have 5 years of teaching experience in a private school: 3 years in management level at tertiary level and just returned to private school as a general manager: 1 Although, | already joined one of the MNCs in Malaysia, keep 8 joining them to learn from them and upskill myself: also keep up J to date my journey and profile on LI to attract the right audiences and opportunities for the future 8 Oh succeed to get some :ffeedlarlyithisreverbgo_ohone 1 offer per month; after 6 months of investing my time there_ top btw; Right now I'm working for a security agency; which is quite underpaid: But Im currently working towards in- house security: will be taking more WSQ courses in the upcoming month and following the PWM model and 1 qualifications: @malaysianpaygap https:Ilwww.mom:gov.sgl employment-practiseslprogressive - wage-modellwhat-is-pwm What are the differences between in- 1 house and agency work? Most hotel sides are in-house; but some hotels also have agency support; some hotels have two agencies support: Some factories also have in-house security: Reporting AN UntaiR Dismissal? was unfairly terminated by my ex - employer on last Wednesday: was still in probation and only worked for one month: There was no warning letter or domestic inquiry before that: It was a 24 hour termination: These are the reasons they put in the termination letter: 1) Lack of ownership 2) Mistakes due to lack of double check (Number 1 & 2 came from same incident) 3) Late for work meeting on 13th July (I did give them the reason and accepted it in the email) they served my notice and was issued many unspeakable threats: was asked to complain in SISPA but what good would it do? The pharmacists community is small enough. I'm 1 inlentiaearberiorsetfreats and also my colleagues would also suffer since are still working there. they Content Writer 3.5 years of experience Graduate degree RM7,500 gross salary Female, 26 years old, Average working hour: Roughly 25-30 hours per week or 5-6 1 hours per 5 days a week, if J organize my tasks right Nothing much on benefits but Unlimited annual leave Flexible working hour Work from homelfully remote This is my third full time job_ 1 Started off with 2.8k(Media) , then 3.2k(E-Sport) then 3.5k(Tech) plus landed my freelance that pays me 4k(Telecoms). I do my full time job and my freelance contract. Malay day, Admin of MalaysianPAYGAP; social good start-up. 19/30 femininelmasculine depending on the mood on Elon Mars Slightly more than 1 month in to the job. Master's 1 1 Salary: -RM15OO so far never like to be bound by convention, so this job is perfect for me because of its flexible hours + creativity freedom: Flexible is by no means short hours k. But this con is countered with a purpose tho enjoy 1 promoting social media for social good. When information being mobilized in a good way; greater good can come out of it: Un-REtERRING Hi MPG, my friend recently interviewed with a few companies after her resignation but were rejected by all, she later found out from one of the interviewers that it was because her ex-boss called the interviewers to make sure she couldn't pass the interviews where can we report this? UIJUX Designer 32, Chinese, Female Location: Kuala Lumpur 4 months of experience in UX Design A mid-career switcher (formerly a copywriter) Degree in Mass Communication 9 Basic salary: RMGK During the Covid-19 pandemic, 1 made a drastic move to transition into the field of UX Design. first took up the Google UX Design ceguvieate 9 goodrfcndattbrugh 1 UX Design process, but realised it wasn't enough for me to secure a job. decided to join a bootcamp for a period of 4 months. A month after graduating; 1 successfully landed with 4 job offers with basic salary ranging from RM4.8K to RMGK. SO, Relationship Manager; Banking Industry Aged 25, Chinese, Female 2.5 years Selangor Bachelor of Accounting & Finance Current Salary: RM 3,600 1 When jumped from my first full time job into the current one, my 1 salary increment is about 25%-30%, was grateful to such level of increment as it happened during lockdown: What would advice is please figure out if you are really keen on banking line before spending on buying house or even car; have 1 asked some of my colleagues, don't really like this industry, just because they're having bill, housing loan, car loan to settle and undeniably; bank salary benefit package is quite attractive. they Initially joined the company to fill in the native Android developer role: It is indeed a given thing, since that was 1 what I've been mainly doing for the past 3 years. But being a person who always eager to learn new tech skills, especially now we're in the era of cloud computing services, I've been itching to learn more about it and most importantly; apply it to a real-life project: And finally here , in my current company; was given trusts to involve in some backend tasks as well, and 1 recently; was assigned to a task related to Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services. Iam indeed now a happier nerd: @malaysianpaygap R&D Engineer (Mechanical Analyst) in the northern area Qualification: Master in Mechanical 8 Engineering (overseas graduate) J Year of experience: below 1 year Male; Malay; 26ylo 0 This is my 2nd job after BFG. My Ist icbnsattingh in Kartuearohe and of my 1 probation of 6 months, looked around and secured my current job with a Semiconductor MNC of 100k+ employees: 4 My advice on youngsters is that learn to find opportunity in every difficult situation. U can make money anywhere thesedays 0 provided that U are willing to take the risk and be confident with urself: Find out what U can do or skills U have and monetize your skills to create an income out of yourself: Believe it or not; after earning an 3 income for myself am able to feed myself healthy food without relying on maggi for my survival. And education tools for my studies like iPad, Laptop etc without depending on parents: buy responsibilities are managing & preparing all digital contents r] & videos) for digital marketing purposes; product listing, social media, corporate etc. I'm also responsible on planning out; caanaaiggsaod our ecothiyerdes hi platforms. Bring in average RMISk every month and hit RM3Ok last month_ @malaysianpaygap Working from home (mon fri) , bosses are young (3Oyrs old), so the 8 working environment is very casual. Free to do anything as long as you 1 completed the tasks given: My 2. High tolerance for people Guess it's because of our multicultural background, we actually have higher tolerance towards everything and less complaints which makes us a very easy going person in company ach hoviegggeod relationships 1 J 3. Preference to work overseas For multinaltional companies, they always look for people who willing to travel frequently: believe for Malaysian we are always open for job opportunities abroad, this makes US a good criteria that comparigorewviargeeopean China/ 1 Hk/Singapore: Also, Malaysians in general are curious about and want to explore the world: And we are excited to stay in country with 4 seasons: handle operational tasks such as automation, requirement gathering, operational support, project planning and project management: am pleased in my current role as finally have a great relationship with my manager:  left my Ist job as needed to upskill myself; so made a move to my 2nd job: For the most part | 1 erangger vozsiiexperienoeveved my manager was inexperienced struggled to handle such a big team: often found my ideas being shut down and was often given unconstructive criticism for minor mistakes: After my 3rd company; realised that having a solid 1 aelatiorahi?ohaveousafanpgce to make mistakes and learn from them: The best advice have received is to work on yourself instead of only trying to impress others as it can only you so far: Having a good manager makes this very easy: get This effort paid off as these free contributions eventually landed me part time gigs with US employers who are looking to build protocols of their own. Half a year in, find myself working at a job that does not even feel like one, simply because this has been 8 a hobby of mine-- to build things that people enjoy using, and 1 giving me a sense of accomplishment that no other company has up to date_ 0 Fellow Malaysians, I'd just like to 0 emphasize that there's a big poo of talent that are struggling with the insanely underwhelming pay rates in Malaysia. Networking, upskilling, and then putting in the effort to contribute to something with those skillsets can help you go a long way: Grab driver 39, Chinese,Male 3 years RM3K and above (Min.of 1Ohrs driving, after commission deduction, petrol and 8 maintenance) Im not high educated, nothing much | can work to survive, to pay loans, to feed my parents, just because the wage in 1 Malaysia is relatively especially for low educated people. Not sure if this is share worthy; but ya, a sharing here Iow, Easy as it seems but there is a catch: | can run this job as a lone ranger but have to manage my time & pick the job strategically so that am not late for delivering cars. There will be some penalties if failed to tick all the right boxes 1 during the job. Moreover; have to know the way of public transportation works in KV area like the back of my hands: But some places in KV are beyond reach of public transportation and that gives me a headache. @malaysianpaygap submission was annoynmous and condensed 308 But S0 WHAT MalaysiaN Pavcap HE DODL HDS OWM FUJTWZE MPG Discord career sharing session of a Head of Corp Dev March 2 / 8-9pm at a web 3 MNC for how U is on a be ifu off When MPG got big crowd of Genz waiting ppl's but that, know like It's forgive friday? can black God off. 90% sins with entire your It's the ONLY forgiveness month where Sins can HUGE wiped sale entirely ask for On top of that; my favourite argument is EPF contribution is for what salary: EPF put a standard that for example Contributions July is for Salary June. My 1 question is, contributions August are for salary? 0 This is the biggest arguments every month with our beloved CEO when it comes to EPF Work for about 2 years and need to explain to him every month: Lucky that he UPL me. 1 end up 0 tendering and having a happy life now: Btw he UPL me with 4 day's Notice top thingy: At first thought this is kind of cheap labour because was just an intern: Plus there were no training and so on but already involved in the development: My boss just depend on my previous experience. And then stepped out beyond my 'web developer" role and become a full stack developer: Most of the time do my own work, searching around the 3 internet to find best practices and implement it: I also proposed improvement that can be done on the system infrastructure and making changes on the whole workflow for the team: AIl of it started during my E intern. Knowing all of these are way above my salary allowance ) , but guess |'Il just do my best for the company:   @malaysianpaygap 2 months before the end of my internship, my boss offered me a permanent job offer: And until now, Im still working at the same company: The bulk of our salary comes from allowance mainly: So in total, take home salary would normally be somewhere around 15k 30k. Dependent mainly on our roster: Ilove my job. And happy to to 8 see the world from time to time: Most of my colleagues are amazing to work with_ Understand there's a lot of of stigma among people thinking that it's an easy job(e.g just pressing the autopilot and what not) get Job position: Live Chat agent Work Industry: Online 3 Entertainment Age 27 Gender Male 1 Race: Chinese 1 Work experience: 6 years Job location: Work from Home Academy qualifications: Diploma in Culinary arts 1 Current salary: RM 4500 basic, around RM 6.5-7k include commission, allowance. work in a test kitchen on campus and my main task is to develop new recipes that is suitable for large scale production and regulatory needs. It's quite ChergetingcOloee heatucesheste; or 1 smell just after adjusting one variable in each batch (the ratio of ingredients, cooking temperature and time, brand of ingredients, dimensions of the product etc). Working here also includes basic chores such as washing the dishes, cleaning the floor; and taking out the trash: 1 would say 1 that this job is flexible as travel 40 minutes to campus three times a week and the remaining days at home writing paper for publication: mom: Life had thrown me a curveball, compelling me to become self-reliant in order to support my son: initially joined as a Call Center agent with a 1 scarievedalaronOior, 3OO ndrrent role in less than two years: @malaysianpaygap I'm fully WFH following the USA timezone, around 40 hours per week, Monday to Friday: My main responsibility is managing a number of accounts in the NAM region. | am the 1 main point of contact for any service request also ensuring all contractual obligations are being met: I'm also responsible for building positive relationship with my clients, working on opportunities for revenue growth, 1 and driving a consistence cadence of client activities to increase the likelihood of renewals: 1 Job: Accounting Assistant and HR Salary: 3200 MYR Working Experience: 3.5 years Company: Relocations and logistics (MNC) Place: KL Race: Indian Qualification: Bachelor of Degree in 1 Banking Landscape Architect (Private Sector) Consultant Firm area KL. Male. 28 J 1 Degree with 4 years of experience RM 4300 before deduction but cannot claim for extra hours (we always staying up when there's a 1 deadline) no bonus even duit raya or angpao. Staying here because got a very good officemates that considered them as friends: 4. Workflow If you've read this thanks. The workflow implemented is Kanban - | find that to be the best framework given the environment we were working in. My specialty is in Scrum though: How Kanban improved the team's 1 performance is this identified that the team had no "flow" There was very little cadence to delivery: They had a very large goal to accomplish and it wasn't broken down to items they could see. didn't know when a task started and when it ended_ It took them 3 months to get used to it I and for me to refine how should define tasks: We brought time (hence performance) down by ~55%, and it remained stable for the next 3 months: Yes a comment was right in that if it was a ~55% spike, it's not 8 really saying anything: But 3 months of the spike sustained is enough proof for an agile environment; in my interpretation of Jeff Sutherland's books. far, They cycle Job/Position Office Admin currently got new job scope: take over to handle social media as previous soc med exec resign) Age, Race, Gender 26, Malay, Fomaleany years Znd years 1 (my Ist job) Job Location KL branch (HQ at another state) Academic Qualifications Master's degree 1 Current Salary RM 2100 (after deduct EPF; Socso)-no increment 3. Look for opportunity! When you've learnt alot (point 1), its time 7 to see alot more of the outside world. You never know what others can offer for your talent! Luck Is What Happens When Preparation Meets Opportunity! 4. Goal setting: For me, my goal a530 yeach&d,1Ofirdarayshen 0 to your goal, no matter what; focus on your goals: J 5.Do not stay in the system! If you think you are worth more, please speak out to your boss: Do not stay inside the system of thinking your pay will never be high because it is impossible. Nol Speak out if you think you are whathyoogonra geay Beveoknow 7 gonna nothing if you dont asking: Tak cuba tak tau: Good luck to everyone out therel strong get get get try Stay Houseman junior doctor in gov 27/ chinesel female 1.5 year Penang MBBS RM54O0 including allowances 1 J Shift system Max 61hour per week 25 days annual leaves + public holiday replacement (able to claim Quitefic eood 1woroWier balance if 1 you are efficient in completing your task so that you can back on time. Superiors can be toxic, while most are kind to teach: As long as mentally prepared and absorb only positive vibes PRIMarketing in NGO sector 28 Female Malay 6 years 4k Degree love the work that I'm doing but 1 the cons of working in the NGO sector is you are expected to do and be a MASTER OF EVERYTHING. superiors don't pay my manager well, it's more of 3 "you are doing smth for the ppl, U shouldn't be asking for more $" mentality: My manager told me if 3 want a career progression that should seek other places because people here are too complacent: 1 wish know the salary rate for my job :( @MALAYSIANPAYGAP My Can you share the specifics on how you acquire new students? For the people who are interested t0 start 1 acquire new students through agents from Facebook or ask my boyfriend to help me because he has a platform on his socials. But you can also post on Facebook groups or XiaoHlongShu if you'd like 1 to start without an agent who would take commission from you, it's just harder:_ Lab Assistant (Microbiology in Quality Control Dept) 24, Malay, Female 6 months contract Pharmaceutical factory in the east 6 coast Bachelors in Industrial 5 Biotechnology 1 Current salary: RM1280 Deacle eatettependinigherhayl 1 higher ups. Demanded degree holders but paying spm-level pay: Strict work environment but nice colleagues (cause they know they're underpaid too). Can't pick and choose cause STEM related jobs are scarce here Job: Performance Marketing (Advertising) 26, F; Expat 4 yrs KL Bachelor degree Foo 1 mid year bonus company share medical outpatient allowance wellness & health allowance transport allowance insurance up to RMIOOK per annum laptopPC allowance Total yearly take home pay approx RM93,000 ish gross This is not my first job nor my first 1 industry; but this is the most well paid by far: Company is super supportive and environment/culture is not toxiclgossipylpolitical Job: System Analyst Position: Executive Industry: Oil & Gas 1 Qliticatiorst Degegion Mathematics Basic salary RMSK Salary history RMZK @malaysianpaygap Race: Malay Gender: Female 1 Keersof Experience: 2+ Years Working hours 9am 6am, 5 days of working Life A GOod ENough JoB SHOULD ALLOW US t0 BE ABLE TO BecomE WhO WE ARE Tutes butdara ovto 0Fou F Thcutond 6o63 noots Crough (ob Reclaiming from Work Simone Stolzoff Hi, previously asked MPG on the salary range of Assistant Manager in banking industry: @malaysianpaygap Fyi, it has been a month since took the job and LIFE HAS BEEN SUPER GREAT. The role is AM, Rega serafterdeceivala Yos 1 salary adjustment). was a lawyer for 4 years in a midsized firm and my last drawn salary was RMSk. Absolutely no v work life balance; 1 always go back home 11 pm 2 am and come back to the office before 9 am: spent my weekend doing work or feeling anxious about pending work: The partners will promise 1 the client the moon and stars and the lawyers have to deliver that: If we couldn't deliver; you will get yelled at. At one point considered going to therapy: Few things have learnt (and still figuring out many others along the way)  1. Startup vs MNC Grass is always greener on the other side but 1 {ostatelyour sage ofuifealFer the startups, you get the cool parties, super flexible working hours, cool office amenities like ping pong tables and free flow barista coffee but you trade it off with job security and stability: have seen tons of layoffs when things aren't going 1 well: For MNC , you might just have way too many red tapes and bureaucracy to propose any changes Software Engineer; Cloud Computing, S170k + Restricted Stock Units US, 26, Chinese 4 YOE 1 Ooeuting aogepaniesom Thercelcloud Work life balance is highly team dependent but would consider myself lucky: Full time work from home in a low cost of living area with no expectation to return to office. Average 40 working hours per week: Plenty of growth and mentoring 1 Opritg promoced Cureniov working @malaysianpaygap would say my salary is higher than average but not uncommon working tech in the US. GOOD NEWS: So_there is a program out there that pays you RM2OOO every month to learn a new skill + get & job: BAD NEWS: only 18-30 years old And drum rolls__. YOU MUST BE UNEMPLOYEDW 8 was offered Project Engineer position from the Ist company before graduated degree, during internship. 2.8k was an average or slightly below I avg starting salary then. accepted it bcs of the growth mindset have. The thirst on knowledge & experience. "The more responsibility held, the more will learn: The more exposure & challenges 8 receive of the business, the quicker learn: While /'m still young, | should absorb and learn as much as could:" Are what I've been telling myself: 1 Who's the career doctor on duty? Sean Vincent has coached over 700 learners at General Assembly to enhance their employability through coaching on topics such as career growth; personal branding and CVIresume workshops Copywriter Social Media Editor (Beauty Industry) 23, Chinese, Female 3 months 3 Selangor Bachelor in Degree 1 EPFexudingiaralad Rnclscing 0 allowance) Feel grateful as found a job during this pandemic with a not bad offer: Hope to see more 3 sharing from different copywriters social media editors Customer Service Specialist RM3OOO (2021) Publisher Partnerships Coordinator KYC Coordinator RM3200(2022 until now)  MNC , Work from Home,0 1 sooerieerfoyeoth before joining Male, Chinese, 22 Main focusing on Know Your Customer(KYC) related tasks, communicating with partnerships all the time, termination agreement; 8 account creation for new partnerships, helping BD team when needed; working closely with Compliance team U SENIOR TALENT ACQUISITION SPECIALIST LEON 0 LIM An experienced recruiter with diverse experiences recruiting for finance, operations, and technology: He has harnessed a unique talent for sourcing employable candidates, ranging from job postings to social media: Some companies squared our score just so that can the curve of the graph downwards so that it is hard for you to reach the 8 factor: 80% in our company is categorised as almost impossible and 40% is behaviour score Toxic 1 bosses use the 40% to keep you down so that don't have to 3 justify for overperforming staff. 1 want to do Ph.D. but not sure if 1 that will increase my worth in my company's eyes: Eyeing to jump overseas as science industry is not going anywhere in Malaysia they pull they Lastly, the reason why wanted to share my story is: 1. | have lots of friends who face underpaid, and some bosses even 3 said "oh it's okay if you don't want this salary; I can find other candidate) 2. Maybe my salary can be as a reference for fresh who're looking job now: 1 And also, thanks for MPG for a lot of useful information. It also a lot when I'm looking for a jobl grad helps This is my story RM18O0 after deductions, 2years 1 plus working for the same company: No banefits at all, not 1 even Health/Safety: And this is the salary of working in KL_ Im a Male working in Construction: 1 For the youngsters who like math, progabmtieng,sectostormycomputer ] demographic; finance & business; 9 could consider to give it a It is exhausting as you need to study and work at the same time, but J could be financial rewarding once you have past all the exams: have also shared the sample increment for each exam in screenshot below 1 try: 1 took this job because the compensation and benefits are better compared to my previous company; and thought there would be great prospects for career advancement. 1 Hoping for MPG-ians input on 1 where my salary stands in the market, and advice on how to get promoted seeing as it's difficult for me to prove myself with the current job scope. Was then headhunted for this position last year and the process took about 2 months (3 interviews + 1assessment)_ Was looking at a 35% increase but was eventually offered 80% which was both 1 bhokedrend fiest grerefuilf gotahe call and looked up the company; but 1 decided to take the opportunity as I've always wanted to join an MNC. To my fellow hustling creatives out there looking for change , hope my 8 experience encourages you guys to the bigger opportunities out there_ You know your worth grab Professional Chef 30k Working in U.S 27 Male Malay Degree Bachelor , Diploma was rejected by Culinary Government College for 2x. My SPM english is D. A lot of people down grade and Chehoneeaysape WGaid tCher a 1 don't have bright future and you knowlah some of the chef lembut sikit called bapok  _ ayoo tired with this mindset. Some people may said chef are not qualified job and their pay isn't great: Start my career from 17 ylo (after spm) as dishwasher at Restaurant: 8 Then go to culinary school for diploma: After that was continue my career in Hotel industry before i get offered to further study with full scholarship. day: They they  Increment History: Fresh (2017) RM2500-3500/ month (System engineer) 2020 RM7OOO RM1O,ooO/month 1 ZOzud Rivgineoo (Cloud Engineer) started from startup company as system engineer; along the way i skill myself up with a bunch of 8 professional certificate and real skill (not only on paper). Nced Hi MPG, | would like your advice on the situation I'm facing right now: Around July this year; the company worked with announced that they are shutting down end of the month, which were 2 weeks after the announcement was made. As a result, many of the employee will be let go. At that time, we were promise to receive our July salary and 2 month compensation due to the retrenchement. However; now it's almost end of Oct 2022. Not a single cent we've received from the company: I"ve reached out the HR, sadly cant to give the dateltimeline or when we could receive our deserved pay: did write a report to Jabatan Tenaga Kerja Semenanjung Malaysia (JTKSM) , however they could not help me as my salary is beyond RM2OOO. Im hoping you could share some advices or your followers can share some insights how can my ex- colleagues and can our pay once and far all: Advice , YOUR they get We create digital content (videos, motion graphics, GIFs) for the company's websites and help centres: Very people centric company; focussing heavily on both clients and employees. Great benefits eg: mental health, child education, 21 days AL, medical 1 fonesageoidticalighdental, sports & 1 aioeanacatoe, Workerte beraecein is good too (hybrid). Landed my first role as a Video Editor in an advertising agency back 8 in 2020 right before the pandemic hit: Was blessed to have kept that job but it was a painful start full of pay cuts as the agency was  desperate to survive. @MALAYSIANPAYGAP Graphic Designer Ryeaoo 1 Degree in advertising Wish can over Rmbk at least for 8 years experience. that's why | switched company and switch job as well 1 31 Chinese Age Increment One-Off Society of Actuaries (RM) Reward (RM) Exam P 200 Exam FM 200 Exam IFM 300 ASA Exam LTAM 400 Exam STAM 400 Exam PA 300 Exam SRM 200 FAP | 1000 FAP II 1000 Associateship Course 500 ASA Total 4000 500 FSA Module 1 300 FSA Module 2 300 FSA FSA Module 3 300 (Specialty Exam ERM/Risk 600 Track) Exam Core 1250 Exam Advance 1250 Fellowship Course 2500 FSA Total 4000 2500 ASA + FSA Total 8000 3000 My advice: Join startup company (first 3 years) where you can learn all: 1 From here you will do security; network, computing, programming: Then pick your poison (my choice is systemlcomputing) and master it In long term, your salary will pass all 8 your college with same age even thou you start small: And saw that my current boss was urgent hiring, so | sent my resume; and was called over to interview: Tbh; EHS engineer was quite hard to be employed especially fresh 3 grads: 1 guess because we are inexperienced; do not own certifications. But planning to take competency exams after that: 1 actually joined this company less 1 than a month, sO have no comments to this company: guess the headcount here is much higher than my company: (E.g. I didn't expect of queuing 15 minutes just to reach the canteen itself) got "It's been a year of mentoring; training; and really putting myself out there: And,on a good month; I can earn up to RMIGk mentality has shifted for the better: I can certainly hope again with the financial independence | have now: It's not the kind of hope that will change the world; but it will change the well-being of my family and that's bigger than the world for me: "Having financial independence means Ican a safer car for my parents; renovate their house, and travel to broaden my horizons: can also be a wife who is more myself: Very simple wishes; but life's better with such hope to look forward to My get Public uni lecturer Female Malay PhD Pahang 7.6k yearly increment RM29O 1 Syrs working experience Job scope: ~Teaching at least 16hrlw 8 1 At least 2 publications in an academic journal, conference presentation; innovation or product development 5-6 final year students dissertation supervision every sexOnstecPD traininglyear 0 Established private uni more, basic around 12-15k (in my field- health sciences) _ 1 think it's time for gov to revised and look into lecturers salary scheme. 35y0 paid went to a flight school abroad before coming back to Malaysia for a license conversion for a year: trained to become one because have been dreaming of it since was in school and know won't survive a 9-5 8 13.05 My first flying school was literally a google search and found a good deal at that time. Then went to find anyone who is studying there on 1 Facebook to ask them if it's any good and can be trusted. @malaysianpaygap  went for interviews with multiple companies in middle east before / got lucky and accepted into one. There's alot of opening for the position here since end of last year until now: Quit for my mental health and now 0 working at a convenience store below my apartment (2 mins walking commutel) and even though my salary is less than half; feeling much better mentally and somehow physically as well: 1 No more stuck in traffic jams; no 1 amreecord abchesetgideadlilgesn Once my shift is over; it's over: even cook more at home now to save money: Even with a cut down salary; somehow managed to live within my means: am an overseas graduate from UK. | can not talk science with management because don" 't understand science. Management keen in shortcuts rather than actual research_ 8 If anyone wants to know how 1 bonus is calculated: KPI is 2%/ (z%) ^2 x factor X salary 1 Let's say you achieve 80% And factor is 3 0.8^2x3 = 1.92 1.92 times salary Btw, they PROFESSIONAL CAREER COACH LIM MEI PHING A Professional Career Coach; former hiring manager and Senior Director at Standard Chartered with years of experience in building teams and hiring across all levels: Nowadays, she helps corporate professionals working 9-5 to plan and grow their careers without getting stuck Senior Software Developer; Fintech local bank 30/MalaylMale Experience: 8 years Location: WFHJKL Diploma in Electronics & Information Technology Salary RM 9212 Beaierabie expenses: Electronics, J Gadgets, Dental, Optical, Home office equipment, etc Outpatient/Hospitalization Loans/Education support Annual Leave: 21 days Sick Leave, Marriage Leave, 8 Pilgrimage Leave, Exam Leave, Block Leave; Maternity Leave Annual Bonus: 2-6 Months (depends on performance) Employee Share Scheme MALAYSIAN REALiTY Working CheCk In SiNGADORE am currently working remotely for a SG agency, ajob found through scrolling FB feed: I had worked in Singapore before this remote job until was retrenched. Both are making $2,700 monthly: Yasss, free advicel Time Jan 9,2023 (Mon) 8-9pm Where MalaysianPAYGAP IG live We will collect your career question How during the day through IG story, Sean will answer them livel guess my career pathway is not as straightforward as others, was very lucky in a sense. Mind you, not everyone in my company (we have more than 2k employees) have the same flexibility as am: Just depend a lot on your job nature and who you 1 report to. My company usually approach candudate through few local job searches like Indeed and Jobstreet. And know our talent requisition team use Linkedln a lot. Almost all of the positions offered are contract based, which candidate might think it's not a 1 good offer. But, from my own experience, they can definitely achieve the permanent position and the benefits as long as their performance shows: Bookstore Manager Publisher (20+ years in business, <10 employees) 36 Ceainefe3 ears at a non- 1 profit) Kuala Lumpur 1 BA double major in humanities - related fields, from a top 20 university in the world RM3,600 with no commission (Starting salary RM3,200) 1-month annual bonus for 3 years 1 14 days of annual leave; reimbursement for basic medical fees prior The Ist company offered me that. practice lean management: Min resources, multiple scope of works 8 per employee: 5 years in, personally have involved in the whole operations of Property Development business but Account/ Finance & HR: Engineerivgl eonstfeciorecProjects in 1 Management; Sales, Marketing Media Design, Corporate Planning & Presentations; Stakeholder Management; Research and Change Management: Project Engineer was just a title. The company from 2 8 development projects in hand to more than 5 ongoing: While others would see it as company's saving cost; overworking employees; why should you do things outside your scope etc-, |am fine with that: was happy: Blessed with great 1 coworkers, helpful and nurturing seniors and receiving direct mentorship from the Managing Director: Most importantly, was able to continuously learn They grew To good to be true? The K-Youth Development Programme under excelerate (the parent company to General Assembly Malaysia), is the same team that has brought previous employment initiatives to over 1,000 job-seeking graduates Digital skill training only You can choose from 9 different courses cybersecurity, data analytics, data science, digital marketing; product management; python programming; ux design, telecoms business and telecoms technology: Ist Job at O&G MNC Year 1 RM4,4K Year 2 RM5.7k Year 3 RMZ.4K  Year 4 ~RM1Ok 1 Quit to take a 9 months career break for my mental health 2nd Job at Startup Year 5 RM8.4K Year 6 ~ RMIOk 1 Year 7 RMII.6k 3rd Job at MNC Year 8 RM15.9k (Current) Social Media exec at advertising agency 30 Male Chinese 5 years of experience 3 years in current job Kachelor Degree 3 Current salary: RM4OOO ) No benefits As #agencylife dictates, work life 1 balance is non existent as we need to work round the clock to fulfil last minute client needs. As this is a small agency; it is managed by a small team and they have an inner circle and 8 practices a "yes" man culture. Anyone who is found "disobedient" will be sidelined in regards to bonuses and increment. have seen so many comments about passionate designers being 4 discouraged. | want you to know; it's really NOT possible at all to be ] well Designers, would say U can get up to RMZ.Sk: More than that they'Il need you to be an art director: Don't be discouraged, should say I'm not super great in 1 designing; but i understand how business work, understand how design works, 1 communicate well and take charge. Good luck! paid. TeLL US WHAT (S ThE MEANiNG Ot JoB to YOu THEN VS Now; ANd STAND A CHANCE t0 Win A CoDV OF ThIS Book! Eligible Winner: liked this shared this to their Commented the meaning of job then VS now completed by June 29 Post Post story task is coordinate MEP services to avoid any clashes between the services. 1 also responsible to prepare 3D model 6 for HVAC, Electrical and fire system and all other element related to M&E: J 1 joined this company last year (I1month). My starting salary is RM3500 and early of this year 05 got 10% increment based on Perfosppancorking here; no stress 1 and management also good: just want to knoW; is it my salary suitable with my experience? My my SALES RMI.SKt ) 25, MALE, MALAY SPM @malaysianpaygap NILAI Married with 1 kid EXP : 2YRS IN F&B 1 5YRS IN COMPUTER RETAIL both 7 years of my experience is in managerial department: the first 2 years are after |'ve finished my SPM 8 during 2014. and then quit the job bcs the owner sold the business to other person. and then moved to tech retails bcs /'ve always been fascinated by pc building and such thing: T0 S (swipe left for format) WANT SHARE WoUEz Associate 1, External Audit; RM4k-4.3k KL  Male, 21, Malay 3 ~1month experience (started in nov) Big 4 (accounting firms) completed my ACCA in October 2023,at the age of 21. Amongst my peers, its mainstream to go into 1 audit right after you finish your papers: the acceptance rate for acca affiliates (grads) in big4 audit is almost 100%, if you apply timely before the slots are taken: (my intake in nov23 was ~IOOpax) Barber Kuala Lumpur Male/25/Malay Salary: Roughly RM3.Sklmonth Years of experience: 4 years Working hours: 11 hours You can 1 rest whenever theres no customer. 1 Most barbershops have worked got no basic. The salary range are based on comission only: Usually 50/50. But if you're experienced enough you can ask for 60/40 rate. Commission are based on per head. My class size as a daycare teacher 1 is 12 to 16 students__and need to check all of their homework to make sure they're all correct in 2 hours, which is very exhausting considering they'd be screaming, talking, playing, and just not doing their homework sometimes. Then provide them with tuition lessons as 1 well: Job position: Banker Industry: Banking and Finance Age: 28, Race: Chinese, Gender: Female 3.8 years of experience 0xJob location: KL Academic qualifications: Bachelor 1 BaBkisigend Fnainceration (Hons) 1 Current salary : RM 3,200 worked as Executive since year 2017, But realized that there is always a difference of salary between me and my friend in other bank: CompaNv A Or Companv B? Hi Peeps! need your help in terms of opinions for the job opportunities that have received, but have mixed feelings for it. Currently | only been in Company A for like 2 weeks and a new offer coming from Company B. What want is the Work Life Balance along with minimal pressure & stress, good career path: I'm quite indecisive , so | dont want to make a bad decision +at the same time; | dont want to sound ungrateful offer of RM 7k reflected the offer to my boss and my boss matches 7 the pay: Another year passed to current year; and again |'ve started researching around for other opportunity and 1 of the company offered me RM 1OK and lots of other benefits which meets my expectation and this is how i 1 secured my upcoming job: J What learnt from my experience is. 1. Never complain on your work even if sometimes it may be overwhelming; look at the bright side, you are learning alot more from the work as well: It will definitely benefit you in a long run: 2. Grit: You must have grit, without 9an alener potertiaottig oeres 7 for all new working people like me. Have the courage to jump out from comfort zone, |'ve jumped out from my high paying property work to a lower pay job just to learn more: Job: Data Analyst Salary: 3500+500 Fresh Graduate Place: KL Race: Chinese Qualification: Bachelor Degree in 1 Commerce Working in an MNC IT Corporate right after graduation and a two year contract: Was pretty happy and satisfied at first but recently am 1 not satisfied with the working culture of the company and just found out that new joiners are getting higher pay than me: Initially, Im fine with it as understand a commerce student takes time and got 3. Technical Skills and Certifications don't have a PMP but planning to take under the new company: am Professional Scrum Master (PSM) Il Certified. 1 certified 2 years in this field: think PMP is a very obvious 1 recommendation to increase your value, so definitely take that if this is your line of work: For Scrum Master certs, recommend taking at least up to level 2. Level 1 is enough to open some doors, but Level 2 is where there is a "wow" factor IMO. My technical skills in engineering is I limited, but is enough to understand the context and capacity when speak with my engineers. have dipped my toes in Python for data wrangling, analysis. also know a little bit of ReactJS to help out my engineers 8 when need: My non-engineering technical skills are in Jira administration, and agile performance metrics analysis: got they Mobile Developer 1 Otferedld bkleYR (at Aug 2022 & currency not converted) MNC at KL Qualification: Degree Grad in the same year & with real project exp in required 1 techstack Exp: Iam really happy with my job. The company provided extensive of benefits such as 18 days of Annual Leave, parental leave, medical 1 andrutpatienerhae Coveothingatient well. Iam able to claim for home office supplies, gym membership, dental and vision as well: @malaysianpaygap The director am reporting to is truly exceptional: We routinely engage in 1 challengenearcaloguestorddre process enhancements_ know started my career a bit late compared to folks my age who might already be on top of the corporate ladder; but you know 3 what? No regrets. That's just how life goes, and I'm pretty happy with where Im at right now: From there, | started reaching out to my architectural friends or people might know who were looking for architecturaljinterior photography; and slowly built up a portfolio shooting those kinds of projects The travel work took up half time, and when wasn't traveling | was trying to shoot more 1 daase Meladtegeng 1 work started to decline after they changed their EIC , sO that's when really tried to push and hone my architectural photography I've been lucky to have some great architectural clients, and keep striving to showcase the best Malaysia has they my Beauty Consultant Retail Line Mid 20s, Chinese Female 1 year in new company(never been 1 happier) 4 years in this line Basic RM2.6k 1 + Commission RMI.Sk~RM4k + Quarter Incentive RMIk~RM3k 1 + bonus +I3th month salary Roughly monthly average throughout the year is 3 RMk~RMGk(location of store is important) (Ex) Head Of Events, Entertainment 35, Malay; Male 15 years exp Based in KL, worked all over SEA 8 No degree; SPM only Current Salary: RMIOK + benefits 1 Started out with RMZK salary: 8 Worked at same company for almost 10 years with gradual salary increase but eventually left to different industry after finding 1 out was being below market rate. was a core member of the company; end of the day just felt unappreciated: Left company while making RMGk a month: paid Trust me; it's not: We go through rigorous tests every year without fail: We have to make sure we are healthy and rested well before work: There's a lot of early mornings and late nights Away from family a lot: 8 Overall really do love my job. Appreciate the people work with: And God given would wanna work in this line till I'm grey and old. Cheers You will be evaluated at every rotation and there may even be opportunities to go overseas: However; if you do not perform and you do not make a significant 8 contribution or change compared to other Management Trainees ] you will be shown the door: Around half of the selected candidates are deemed suitable 3 and get a salary increase upon confirmation after the 1 year: Definitely the best way to start 1 your career as it gives you the most exposure possible into the working world. The benefit of working in a small- sized company is, flat organization: You can report directly to your boss on what you are going to do and he let me do it: Your voice is easily heard. Your boss also know your growth and the values you brought and will bring to the company: have a growth mindset. can't sit around and do repetitive task: Iike to wonder around the internet, searching what is the best way to do things What is the most efficient way to do things. Along the way; do learn new skills, new 8 tech, new programming languages, new softwares, new tools and a lot of new things: @malaysianpaygap But there's a drawback: I'm the only full stack developer here. Everyone else only involve in front/backend programming: While me here involved 8 in front/backend programming as well managing the whole server infrastructure alone. Yeah was lonely and still lonely: | almost left this company because the amount of salary doesn't match the amount of responsibilities and workload have to bear: told my boss the amount of salary want and he said it is not fair for the others since I'm asking too high: While is it fair for me? involved in a lot of technical stuff while the rest onlv focus frontlbackend Looking for career advice Job: Marketing Industry: Mall Management Salary pre-tax: 2400 Working Hours: 8am 6pm (5 days a week, sometimes work on 1 weekend if there is event) graduated with a degree in bachelors of marketing and this is my first job ever: have been working in this company for more than 18 months: At first my job 1 scope is to bring in new tenants for the mall and have successfully bring in a few tenants to the mall: Then started to focus on A&P which is to organise events and decided to go for a full time Dasher since the process of applying and training is quite easy: Plus, SO much time because was unemployed at that time: The job is simple_ Deliver a car to a customer from an owner or vice versa: Most of the time; | don't even meet with the customer because of COVID-19 taught us to be contactless: All the cars from this car rental service 1 uses Smartkey which is in the app. There are also several cars from some private owners who use this company to manage their cars on rental: The owners will some commissions as well: these kind of cars, need to be physically close with the guests and hosts to retrieve or give the physical keys. With precautions and SOPs adhered  while dealing with them all:. got get For Let's help some of us to understand why Ramadan is significant ramadan's a month for reflection and introspection: encourages ppl to reflect on habits, relationships, et For the ones struggling to keep close to God, this is the time we'Il try to fix that: Please don'tjudge us spiritual cleansing- heart; body; mind, soul and tummyl Umrah Logistics Staff 1 (Ground Staff) Got paid in Riyals (SR 2.5k) RM 2.9k 2 years [ If you're going to Umrah (Islamic lesser pilgrimage) , you will most likely see the likes of me there. 1 My first job as a copywriter; | only 2700 but don't blame them cause lowballed myself since was new in the industry. But then; also didn't increase my pay upon confirmation/1 year (no appraisal no bonus) steuted merzedt aoreaaoy my 1 expected salary: | decided to ask for what think deserve and they gave me that as a starting pay! | was very surprised: Then after probation, increased again (heftily) and was again pleasantly storriserd muctenioartVrorrrene 1 peace of mind that I'm getting somewhat an okay salary; I also to work in a chill culture, do work at my own pace and constantly learn about writing: got they they get 8 1 The people in my own department also excluded me from every 1 meetings, not giving me any tasks My idea and opinions are ignored, tried to ask for extra responsibilities but got ignored too. as if I'm just a noise to them_ Idon't know where did it go wrong: Was the problem? 1 Thats all from me: Thanks for reading this super long story and would really appreciate it if you can drop me your 1 thoughts on this thanks: 8 Parc _ Subang LET'S Pi cNIc pot tarot live music luck therapy group coaching Nov 18 (Sat) 4:3Opm Malavsian Pavgap PANic/ No Job: 3d Visualizer (Interiorl Architecture) Place: Kuala Lumpur Basic: RM8OOO Bonus: (1 month salary; current | company) , (Max 4 months salary, previous company) Experience: 8+ years Qualification: Diploma in Interior Design 3 35 Race: Malay Gender: Male Age: 4. High adaptability Also because of the multicultural background and lifestyle, we are easier to adapt to new environments. Most of the manufacturing companies are aftualillilogkog iveffreqteatey 1 0 and can easily adapt to new environment especially in south 3 east asia. Imagine if you assigned one Malaysian and one Hongkongese to Cambodia, who could stand and live a better life there? (no offense just an example) In conclusion, 1 am sincerely proud 1 to be a Malaysian and hope those who are keen for high pay job could start by approaching to ChinalHongKong companies! :D Client sources: 99% online and 1 mouth to mouth, from satisfied clients Capital: Less than RM2OO since 2016 for FB Ads only: 1 Time spent on side hustle: 1/4 bosses for my full time job are very supportive. Iknow some companies don't allow their 1 employees to do side business, etc but am lucky: They know and very supportive. : @silshushosskns 3 My Job: Business Development Executive Salary: RM3OO6 Gender: Female  ECigk Qualification/Years of experience: @malaysianpaygap 1 Scieluted in Bachelor of Health was a teacher for three months and then ventured into building my own t- shirt brand, which unfortunately didn't last longer than a Following that, dabbled in freelance transcribing but 1 eveptralyyoomi/and bteekd?o personal matters. During my t-shirt year: 3 At the end of 2022, decided to take on a freelance ghostwriter job with one of irish startup company which is based overseas: My work is to simply write a technical article with words less than 800 words_ Before 0 writing i am to brief about the particular topic of the article and was given information based on what the client needs Most of my articles are related to southeast asia economy; startups, business and 3 technology: Had a fun time with the startup because gave me chance to write technical articles with no prior experience needed: For one completion of article was 25 which is equivalent to roughly RMI1O. In a month i am able to make roughly RM4OO-600 based on how many jobs were given to me. they paid how Did VOu Secure Vour internship? Im in need of some advice regarding internship applications My internship is supposed to start in two weeks, but unfortunately, haven't secured any offers F've been applying since April, and now it's already July: I'm starting to wonder if I'm doing something wrong or if I'm just not competent enough: I've applied to more than 30 internship positions, and I'm not being too selective: My field of interest is cybersecurity and computer science, SO have been targeting internships in those areas. Additionally; my CGPA is slightly above 3.50, sO don't think my academic performance is that bad: yet: Some might be sceptical "nahh, they're just using you to do all the 1 stuffs" That's actually not true: Usually what happens here, developers and managers will discuss on what are the next possible projects that we need to involve with. We (developers) , will be given few options to choose from: Or at least, managers will ask what tech stack we would want to challenge next not interested 1 to (ps:| of course with valid reasons, can't blindly say no) and they will to plan out the suitable tasks for uS. @malaysianpaygap try But due to the nature of the =1 cannot specialise or focus on one field. You also expected to do tasks not from your JD: So need to be open minded, and flexible. @malaysianpaygap Foorehehan RM32k Caroand aevangor; j KL): This is average salary that was 1 offered to me by other companies: You can push for more. Reason for not leaving is bcs wfh and tasks oriented working environment: My current home no need to pay rent: 8 If move to kllselangor; need to consider rent and transportation: 1 Not an A student during my study days so securing a job during pandemic is an achievement until realised this company actually taking advantage of this situation. Most of the staff resigning, hence 1 we are understaff during this peak period: Not entitled to annual leave if its your first year: even if ) you take unpaid leave also your boss and manager will question you: expect staff come in early before working hours start and not teavientioe Compogrovertitireenoave 1 forget; entry level must submit 3 months resignation notice. i really wanted to leave but no company willing to wait until 3 months: as for now i just pray for the well- being mental health Bonjour MPG , The blue-collar position seems to be under shadow by the public hope 1 some Malaysians who are interested would've some insight into the security industry in Singapore, and | think Malaysia also shares the same. @malaysianpaygap Job: Security Officer SALARY:24OOSGD 1 RACBERHINESE LOCATION: SINGAPORE AGE:23 Qualifications: Diploma IT (polytechnic) Customer Service cum Merchandising Assistant; fast fashion (local brand) 28, Malay, Female realised for selfonortbefodequit 1 PJ, Selangor ACCA (they interviewed me for a finance position but bait-and- switched during the interview) RMI,800 and "will increase upon confirmation" said took the job because wanted to go back into work after a hiatus just before the pandemic. Didn't think that should be picky considering that many are jobless these But they made me evek afteyofficeeeourshichtialeans 1 the boss said that wouldn't have to work on weekends but never had a moment of peace since the job began: Working hours is 9am 6pm but would contact me about work even after midnight: No respect for MC or time off: they days. they failed to meet expectation then you're highly to kicked out of {oek rornew obeagairveftersyart to L spent in the 'testing program" ggwp): Looking at previous batch, the passing rate is 0.2_ 1 Good to be said, people culture here is good, wfh & flexible timing: You will also be rewarded with AM role & a very high increment once you 'graduated: Nothing comes easy SO it's a high risk high reward would say: 1 get only TRIVIA OR 13.05.2023 3 ADMISSION GENERAL ONE ADMIT 3 NIGHT Malavsianpavgap RM4O RMSO SPM TRIVIA NIGHT RULES NO PHONE NO CHEATING You may sabotage Other team's confidence. 3 ROUNDS 10 QUESTIONS ROUNDS Each round has its OWn theme PRIZES EITHER YOU LOVE IT ORHATE IT But who doesn't like prizes?! @malaysianpaygap Submit your wagel Tweet us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Hang out with us on Discord in Bi0: LiNk understand that many started with basic salary below RM3.8K for junior positions. But do want to let aspiring UXers that it isn't impossible to achieve high pay with the right strategy (a solid portfolio, brushing up on your communication skills, presenting the right growth mindset; etc:). So, fellow aspiring UXers, if UIJUX 9 Design is what you intended to pursue, don't give up. Just keep going: Learn as much as YOU can. Take in as many opportunities as possible coming your way: Don't be afraid to seek and ask for help. Read as many books or articles as possible on UX Design. Brush up fellooudesggnerskOls L kedect Seek 1 mentorship on ADPlist: Learn to be resourceful Most importantly, to have an open mind and heart: At the end of the the real challenge isn't about landing the job but to be able to perform your role. 2 day; My job is to plan and design social media contents for FB, IG, TikTok and Linkedln: I also write articles; write web pages, design and manage monthly newsletters and copywrite for clients. don't work in a team so have full control over my work, don't really 1 have to attend meetings (just the weekly "what's up'" text with my J team lead for my full time, and once every 2 weeks for my freelance). And so far; have to say, I've worked with some of the best 1 people. Have never had any issues with my boss or colleagues in either of the 4 companies workl have worked for: You really have to nail them down during the interview; my go-to questions are usually: Job: System analyst Salary: 4200+200 myr Fresh graduate Place: Cyberjaya Race: Malay Qualification: Bachelor Degree in Computer Science 1 Working in banking environment right after graduation: Have to accept because it is a contract: Honestly not satisfied with the working culture: Fast paced, useless senior (some) , stern boss, 1 colleagues all doing their stuff doesnt even bother helping a new joiner: My advise for fresh out there, dont go for bank as your first job. Wont have many friends as most of them old already: Felt lost but gotta stay here anyway: Pray for me  grad If you get an offer a similarly 1 named position from a local fast fashion brand, please do a thorough investigation on them first. Read the reviews their customers wrote on their shopping sites/ platforms: Their products speaks volumes about their work culture. The one and only 5-star review have on Goectoris from the Managing 1 for they My boss is rather disorganized sometimes, and at times overproductive in churning out new ideas which only wear her down: She's finding ways to make sure the impact of MPG is valuable and practical: Very ambitious! She does; however; occasionally gdvociete errniseroal beaotht Iehe"ll 1 herelstay offline because she understands how exhausting it can be to sift through a large number of msgs, especially when some of them can be full of negativity: But honestly, as a hardcore introvert who's tasked with a highly communicative job like this, 1 somedays are hard. | only wish I'm able to go long and and learn to take necessary breaks in this journey: Wish me luck! far, Reporting AN Untair Dismissal? 1) Lack of ownership 2) Mistakes due to lack of double check (Number 1 & 2 came from same incident) 3) Late for work meeting on 13th July (I did give them the reason and they accepted it in the email) admit that made some mistakes during my job but don't think it's big enough for them to fire me. 1 had met the Pegawai at Jabatan Perhubungan Perusahaan (JPP) and confirmed this is considered Unfair Dismissal: Especially reason number 3, it shouldn't be on the termination letter if they had accepted it. Hil Job: e-commerce & digital content 1 creator Industry: tech accessories (smartphones, laptop) Salary: RM2,200 @malaysianpaygap WFH;rigat oWSirayingigKuantan Ji Gender: Male Age: 27yrs Race: Malay Start-up company based in Selangor (prev in Johor) . Small company with 8 only 5 employees. Focusing on e ooher rersellend partnerships with 1 Exp: got increment of 53%, from 3.4k to 5.2k. My average working hour is 40h/ week: am glad to be working with an 8 R&D team because the working time is flexible can work at my own pace J as long as deliver the results_ My advice for fresh graduates, apply for dream job a semester before graduating to understand the market and the right skillset: Besides, do not 1 be too choosy and grab the opportunity in front of you: Once you entered the industry,; use it to leverage your skills and experience. your First, acquired my security licence, known as PLRD; by studying WSQ courses at night when worked as a process technician and sitting for the examination: 1 have been working at different assignments; such as the vaccination centre, condo, international school, bus depot; and warehouse. 1 have met a lot of people from different backgrounds; and they were always 1 coiod Govthis obirece theyrasteys thought was a Singaporean. They always share some insight about their previous experiences and circumstances in certain industries. why found an opportunity in a startup company with five employees,  opdeatingedicaLencer gopany Although | applied for the position of Digital Marketing Executive, offered me the role of Business 1 Devekoectetionseo bieing oartory to team; found myself as the sole member in my "department" responsible for digital marketing, while others were focused on managing apps: have been working here for 1 one year as of last July: @malaysianpaygap they Challenges: Working up to 14 hours a (in peaacting aifficult guests 1 (imagine retail but on steroids) Dealing with guests who pass away (it's Madinah/Makkah, a lot of people can only afford to go or only decide to go when they're old_ SO go figure) this is a topic in an of itself because of the 1 tedious nature of paperwork and dealing with government agencies Being the face of the company: even though the upper management's mistakes and blunders have nothing to do with you and you're literally just doing yoterroble work & life balance 1 day As 3d visualizer for unbuilt architecture the most challenge part is to make the visual as realistic as possible. Not just that; the visual has a story to tell and interesting | @engortoMoschorteweeieerhe initial concept will be given by Interior designerl Architect but lets not hoping that all the information we will from them, i'Il have to be 3 creative as well to achieve the team goall get Basic RI38 / pax Add-on: sound bath Rl45 /pax coaching RML5 /pax per session an JN Tickets to for INCLUDES improv TICKET have BASIC ` we YOUR therapy music livel Live jamming= reading pianist ) card Tarot networking with converse Social = food connection other's you - Each meaningful . tools Guided - form and strangers quickl Web3 Engineer (DeFi) 27 years old 2 Degree in Computer Science $9000 (RM38,000) / month 7 dipped my feet into DeFi after a year of holding purely ETH back in 2019. As an engineer; 1 naturally offered to contribute my skills to 1 open source projects in DeFi- based Discords to more exposure gain DevOps Engineer; Manufacturing, RM7200 KL Male, 25, Indian 3 years experience  1 MNC company (100,000+ employees) Increment history: Aug 2020: RM35O0, Ist company; 11 months 1 2021: RM45OO, 2nd company; 1.5 years 2022: RM65O0, 3rd company, 3 months, laid off 2023: RMZ2O0 current poster if needed: A few months later after joined the company, a staff who helped to manage the apartment had also left the company and starting from there / help to manage the apartment and airbnb as well: Mostly deal with all the residents & airbnb guests and my best to fulfill their needs: 1 Since the turnover rate in this company is relatively high, I am now considered as one of the senior of this company:  1 am grateful for all the working 1 experience that gained here and all the opportunities given to try out new things. Should ask for a higher pay since | am multitasking alot imo or should look for better career growth and opportunity out there? try Job: Tech Lead Industry: IT Company: Local company Location: Selangor Gender: Male Age: 25 @malaysianpaygap Race: Malay Qualification: Bachelor in Software Engineering Experience: 3 years experience in web devptapgerpetierg SucW stack 8 development in industry Salary: RM8OO0 + RM5OO fixed allowance We built a subscription-based CRM software that consist of web and 8 mobile app and still growing + developing new features. Started off as a web developer intern with RM12OO allowance in May 2019. But after just in 2 weeks already have access to the codebase and started coding: Prior to this, 1 already have experience in web development and cloud computing skill during my study: I've been given tasks to build new features and fixing: bug Aviation. Pilot Based in KUL M, 31, Malay Work in an airline Started with a basic of 1.2k during 8 training: Then after training and becoming a second officer, basic became 5.2k. Some increment over the years and had a basic of about 9k just before the pandemic hit: Currently after the pandemic, basic was adjusted to about 8.5k as a First Officer: surendsivaraj Iw Pinned My man here took the risk by telling the current employer if I'm not exceeding your expectations, voluntarily resign". One of the most badass moves |'ve seen so far: High risk, high rewards. Kudos brol (Pls: hope you can mentor me 117 likes Reply Human Resource and Admin 26, Dip Aviation Management; Work with small Aviation Company RM2,600 before pandemic ) There is a time need to train our 1 chairman's maid: Our CEO said) 0 that is part of HR job. Ok. Other than that groceries shopping for 0 Chairman's house. Idk either I'm a maid or Hr for aviation company: 2 Pandemic hit; 50% cut with verbal pontrisiuo3fsffar EPiand SOCSO 0 With profit getting shrinks, our beloved CEO said he never promised that. With full arguments, He UPL me for the reason of cut costs. Great: My previous job basic is over RM3k, with 4% comm But decided to leave that time due to unbearable stress, unending workload and slipped disc issue. It was a company which truly love working and really 6 gave all out during my service. I've sO much experience and knowledge there: Leave application was very flexible, off on every public holidays and they paid OT tool My 8 heart crushed when had to leave My advice to all young Malaysians out there: Learn to identify the and leave as early as you can. And 1 also be brave to state your opinion when you know re right. Don't be like me Wish me best of luck in the next job huntl ( 3 gain you'1 Reschicesesietaale. 1 ] 6 months contract work_ University kitchen lab located in Semenyih_ 0 Bachelor in Nutrition. Salary: Rm1500 1 When searching for Product UX salaries in Malaysia the most could find within 2 years exp was around Sk which was lower than what i expected. I still feel grateful could reach 6.5k instead but secretly knew should have tried for higher (where was MPG thenl) 1 2 The end goal for me is definitely to build my own product and startup, though dont feel ready for that commitment yet and am mostly happy with working full time + freelance income. guess my moral of the story is to 1 work hard and get extremely good at your craft no matter what it is. People will take notice of your work and that will open more doors then you can ever imagine was a culinary arts student and work in kitchen right after graduate, but the paying for chef is too bad in Malaysia. That why | changed my career to customer service_ First start with Rm2.5k 3 and have changed few companies, last salary was Rm4k with a 1 branded outsource company; but the benefit and management was 1 bad; lot of workload but 70 doesn't appreciate at all. So / changed job again and come to current company: Although the industry itself is sensitive in 1 Malaysia, it's not totally illegal but in grey zone. The benefit and payment is much more better than lot of branded company that | knew; and the workload is less stressful too. they quite Been working as a Project Manager 1 in an IT Software house for 4 years now: Has a PRINCE2 Practitioner certification: Current Salary: RM55OO (before deduction) 1 Wonder if it up to market standard?  My company is a small scale company but mostly are handled by HQ in overseas: But the issues here every year when 1 higherkesie exempcvere teyhiee the existing staff like me working for 3 years plus salary have not reach even 3500. had find part time work to manage my financial situation. My working hour is from 8.30 to 5 while will be doing part time 8pm to 12 am: My part time pay me MYR Z/hour; will 1 manage to do at least to 60 hours to support my car installment: Im still struggling to find a new job. hope this 2023 granted me a new working environment: they they So, they get Job: Client Success Specialist 1 Salasy preeck RMGOSO with yearly increment Location: KL Age: 36 Gender: Female Race: Malay Qualification: SPM 1 Years of Experience: 2 years @malaysianpaygap I'm employed at a tech firm headquartered in the United States: My journey began after spending 12 years as a dedicated stay-at-home 1 mom: Life had thrown me a curveball, Thoughts Last year took digital marketing class because want to learn & explore something new kind of fall in love)_ Somehow my manager knew that took a digital marketing class. after our social media exec left; my manager assign me this new job scope without any raise. 1 1 did a good job with this new task but currently; resent my new task as no increment: So many excuses, this sentence wound my heart "this task is good for your resume as a fresh grad, if you not 1 satisfied with management you can go join other company:' I'm not sure if can grow with my current company but afraid if no one want to hire me for social media position So, But few months ago, there isn't alot of layoffs news yet; big env still ok might be a factor to take into consideration too 1 & for posts in MPG here would also say we need to have your own due diligence while reading (got into comparison mood for me too while reading sometimes) What mean is that from my view; most highlighted posts are usually 1 people sharing with high salary as usually these posts more comments and insta favour these posts get 5. General As an ND; Ive identified my strength is in my systems thinking: So the work that pursue and my objectives are based on systems and processes that 1 implement: If they are not related, will develop a mini-process to there. A KPI on velocity improvement, would turn into a Google Data Studio dashboard with realtime Jira sync in the backend: This helped negotiate my promotion: Basically for ND folks out there, | 1 recommend identifying your "superpower" Then use your superpower to deliver high-value outcomes at work: Go beyond the scope, adjust your KPIs, and if your 8 company is cool, suggest things to upper management: did that before too_ Tips get CompaNv A Or Companv B? Most of the projects required going to the client's place (claim reimbursement is quite fast + not 'kedekut') the Staff all very nice, including the director and the CEO (as for now) , as initially the CEO has guide me directly, soft spoken would say, but got bad feedbacks from someone else, probably the problems coming from the staff himself Got some senior level, probably can learn from them, but mostly foreigner Not that pressuring (As for now) Not too sure about career progression Got 4k per month paid This company is huge with over 30k employees worldwide. just joined this company about a year ag0 as protege and when it was about to end; | 1 immediately got offered to permanent position as exec. would say that my stars are alligned as this kind of thing rarely happens in my current department alaysianpaygap My day-to-day job consists of daily 1 catch up with management; scheduled system testing, analysing logic behind a code, developing dashboards for stakeholder and also some admin & ad-hoc tasks. Am a valuable asset to the firm? at this level i dont think so. the barrier 3 to entry is quite low so im an easy replacement: And believe anyone can do audit, hence the ~100% acceptance rate for acca affiliates. actually i've gotten another offer from another firm for a role in Deals 1 (m&a) , so i'm resigning soon: this is because i've always been passionate about Deals and investments (+ the better pay Purpose of sharing: break the taboo of discussing wages! having the information to know where you stand how far you could go it's not about finding out your worth since there are many personal qualities can't be measured here (plus, we def worth more than paycheck anyway When was working in my home country; my initial salary was around RM5OO per month: enjoyed my work and was very good at it, but it can't pay the bills at all: Plus, I'm the sole breadwinner for the family (paying foedicasiblisgshedceatioacte ?aeneap 1 of faith to move to Malaysia and BOOM! life got better: 3 Started with a salary of RM3K here which was a massive improvement from my previous salary back home: Eventually got to the place am right now; from around 3K to 7K salary in less than 4 years. People say how lucky was for having quite a high pay, especially pooreybaad hore Buo,hetthew 1 don't know is that remit up to 50% of my pay to sustain the family back home. My they know my value, my experiences, my skills. current boss also know this as he is the one who interviewed me_ But, he still offered me the minimum wage per month: @malaysianpaygap by Im starting feel unworthy: 1 Can | some advice on my career path? Where should go? What should do? 1 From 4K per month to 1.5Kt per month, It's really been a tough ride. Please, help. Thankyou in advance My Day day, get Job: Data Scientist at Fintech YOE: 2 years 24 Academic: Local degree in comp sci. 3 Current sal: 7.7k. Started from 1 3.8K at first company: Advice: Always be grateful where you are, never pictured myself to be here but just focus on doing 1 my absolute best in everything: Exercise kindness everytime, especially towards the young ones. You'Il never know who you'Il meet in the future to give you a helping hand: Age: When handed my resignation, | received a huge counter offer with double increment and 3 months performance bonus. But left anyway: My mental health is more importantayap 1 Now | always go back on time bcs my immediate boss always leave on time: | don't have to think about work on weekend: Easy to v approval for annual leave. immediate boss will take charge of the things that have no experience handling: No more yelling culture. Decent salary; great medical benefits. still suffer 1 PTSD from my previous workplace but I'm recovering: get My Now; whenever I'm afraid to do 1 remiechinyset apphe opporterhtieg !let go due to fear and that it's better to fail trying than to never try at all. If you think you don't deserve something, then work on yourself until you do. Don't let go of good opportunities And never stop trying: Giving up is equivalent to shutting your own door of opportunity: You will never know when you might reach your 1 @malaysianpaygap gold. know my employees give what ask: Next point. Know how to sell yourself: Know skills, your_. again, VALUE: Be confident of what your strength within the team is. Make sure know what you are offering and that you are serious about your impact in the team 4 Now you have all those, apply at the RIGHT PLACES. Trust me, there are many local companies willing to pay you more than RM6OOo as designers, but you peopldarelgo Gaidsellrigr ; Some 1 themself; but lowball themselves: never undervalue yourself: Usually the higher paying ones are startups, companies in Linkedln; and get yourself connected with recruiters on Linkedln: Chances of you getting the job are much higher through recruiters (God Bless you recruiters) why your they good they Bro, Started as a HO & MO in KKM where your basic is 2.5k-4k. Gaji bersih a month is 4.5k-6k depending on your rank: Longer working hours, more stress as you are constantly under pressure by superiors and by the 1 time it's your off day, you just sleep as you're too tired. Not to mention your seniors usually discourage you or make you feel worthless especially if they know you want to leave KKM saying you're weak or 1 won't survive etc. Sometimes yoU end up doing the work of other positions as well because there are people that just "makan But there are also really nice superiors, just really really rare. gaji": Project Engineer > Sr: Business Development Executive; RM4.3k > RM6.2k 8 Selangor > KL ">" Transitioning to new job soon; contract signed: Female, 28, Malay Master's & Bachelor's degree Civil I 5 years working experience Transitioning from a smaller SME (15 staff) Ist company to a bigger SME (40-60 staff) 2nd company Salary History: 8 2017 RM2.8k 2018 RM3.Ik (+10.7%) 2020 RM3.65k (+11.3%) 2022 RM4.3k (+17.8%) (Ist Company) 2022 RM6.2k (+44.2%) Oct (2nd 1 Company) Industry: Construction/Building, Real Estate & Property Development (Both companies) Eng: May My company has a high turnover; araceEenthsesyelling cbaorger 1 moves me. 1 To profit in a year; my company needs 1out of 20 publications to be a 6-figure bestseller: This has happened just twice since joined: think demand for cheaper local goaktyhas compromised their 1 Ia CH Career Clinic Ask away your worries + doubts With cOLLAB WANNA BE SPOONFED? (like a golden spoon fr) December 2021 Malaysian Employers Malaysian Trades Federation (MEF) Union Congress Latest minimum "Not the right time for wage in Malaysia is any increase right now as it will derail the RM1,200 economic recovery" big corps have If minimum wage recorded greater increases,the cost of productivity goods and services profits will increase as operation costs increase Households expenditures are An increase will only risingl benefit the foreign workers Even RM15OO is below the national February 2022: poverty line income Don't think it can happen of RM2,208/- by the end of 2022 Iah My SPM results weren't great; but / was determined to study overseas. 1 don't come from a wealthy 1 background, so looked into doing an American Degree Transfer Program: | did 1.5 + 2.5 program, 1.5 in Malaysia, 2.5 in US. | started with Computer Engineering major; then switch to Computer Science after realizing the job opportunity here. @malaysianpaygap When in college, sustained myself by working part time as IT help desk 1 buprtrt ay Suahavec Odefinitebptle possible to survive as a student and make ends meet minimally here. HR Executive, Oil & Gas Industry 31/ Malay 8 years experience Bachelor Degree 3 RMZ,200+ all in + medical benefit with capping: 3 Personally think people from the same industry are higher with 0 better benefit. Having to live in the city centre , 1 with family commitment; safe to say its a "cukup-cukup makan" kind of figure. #notcomplaining but i do want to know hows other people from the same industry are compensated paid Job: Senior Patent Executive 6000rm (8 years experience) Genderalale 1 J It's a niche job. Im not too sure how much others are being Pretty sure my peers are more since im not performing that well: If you are in my field, try to your patent agent certification asap, and master overseas patent prosecutions to go further: Don't 1 be like me; im too slow: Pay: paid. paid get Date: (17 (huadex) Sharpen salary negotiation skills Time: Location: 8.0opm Discord Stage through role-playl Moderated by MrMoneyTV S SO YOU THINK YOU DESERVE A RAISE? As now !'m working from home, but finding a new job in SG as of career development: Since Singapore is an economic hub, there are more big agencies based here; There are more substantial and interesting projects. But Malaysia is always a better place to live. So maybe in my 30s or F'Il be back to Malaysia and maybe God's will, to open my own small startup company: part 40s, Main focusing on Know Your Customer(KYC) related tasks, communicating with partnerships all the time, termination agreement, account creation for new partnerships, helping BD team when needed, working closely with 1 Compliance team  This team helps me develop and learn very much knowledge, just wondering if this pay is okay? Too high? Too low? Both job experience are from same 8 company; my first job started in MNC until today, was seeking for more opportunities outside if there's any: Thank you, much appreciated! This is my 3rd company: Current salary is after latest increment: When hunting for a new job, 1 made sure to an increment more than 30%. Do not let the Recruiter or HR impede your exoectedraxruby incyergenats J 1 20%". That is not always true. Great place to work during this pandemic. Have been working from home since started. Stable job with good colleagues and managers. Sometimes to work extra hours, but the overall work 8 life balance is okay: get Navigating wOrk and Lite With a Conviction? Hi MPG, Im trying to get some advises from youlthe audience and hope some information could help. So the story basically goes like this, my boyfriend was involved in a DUI case_ It was reported with 6Omg and it's above the reading sO he was charged by the polis and has to attend hearing: We all know that if he was to be punished he has to receive penalties of fine, imprisonment and license will be suspended as well: know if he was charged with these records, can he still applies for overseas job like Singapore; New Zealand Working Holiday etc, what are the chances it will requires background check? Since his current job relies on travelling a lot; this could really do heavy harm on him: hope we can some advises on what are the plan b(s) we can go for atm: line , May get Hi Malaysia Just want to share what have done for past 5+ years Current Job: 1 Engitiee; Cloud Infrastructure Salary: RM14,000 Age: 30 years old Male Malay Total Experienced since grad: 5 8 VeAc Comoary 4Ohours per week Work from Home Pay Gap, Accountant; healthcare, RM6300 Kuala Lumpur Female, 27, Chinese ACCA, 6 years experience Im currently working for a MNC with probably 200-ish employees 1 in the KL office alone. Just joined weoeelnoorgoidcregelyyed; and 1 week: Not too sure how valuable am to the company because I've been assigned pretty simple tasks so far which leaves me feeling demotivated at times: day, Start my career from 17 ylo (after spm) as dishwasher at Restaurant: Then go to culinary school for diploma: After that was continue my career in Hotel industry before iget offered to further study with {nueroaonaa Buterauss 1 of am CHEF, i can travel around the world. You can either be Chef in the cruise, Speciality Chef at 5 star hotel or even chef that presenting food to global: It's not about what job you choose. You yourself have to decide what future you want: Just 8 ignore bad vibes and chase ur dreaml Sales Manager; Hotel 32, Female 9 years, Penang RM3,900 Not sure i am overpaid or 1 underpaid as majority of sales manager in Penang salary around 3.3k to 3.6k. At first i thought international 1 cbaiparetetoidlbrdaeoree hotel but 2 here the working environment is really bad especially majority of staff has been worked here for 10-20 yrs some even 30yrs, they just waiting for retired and dont want to more effort and passion in their job, No leadership, 1 favouritism, no respect or sympathy to staff; not willing to accept new changes or new ideas: This is the problem where a company has too many old staff: put lazy, Marketing in the Crypto industry Degree in Corporate Communications 25, Female, Chinese Fully remote Current salary: USS3100 3 6 In my first job, was working in a crypto company that is based in 0 Malaysia. Started out with RM35O0 and ended the job with RM5SOO. For my current job, | made the [ompenyrandteecetiveallypton 1 USD: Thoughts: Crypto is super fast paced but extremely rewarding_ Im really happy with my current placement and super glad made the switch. Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Engineer 3.2k, Local U (Env. Sc) MNC in Instrument Manufacturing; 3 Penang ] Before moved to this company; | actually completed a year internship in a company doing instrument It's an MNC , the wages are also high: 1 For me, Iam quite lucky to be hired once after my internship. 1 learnt a lot, that makes me stand out from other friends. too- start with dishwasher on 17. Then my parent send me to culinary school for diploma. During diploma was working part time in hotel as kitchen helper: One approached by somebody to work part time as a promoter at shopping center presenting food Bracing-soove goaraik with eepele. 1 Im lucky because my boss like my work, he ask me to doing same thing in Singapore: That's so tiring work: Finish my class then packed my bag straight away taking bus to singapore. Sometimes have to sleep by roadside and take a bath at mosque or even shopping mall  because my boss just give me 8 small allowance for lodging, and when weekends the price for hotel/hostel went up. day, get Visual Production Specialist MNC Finance & Fintech Male , 25 (BA Hons) Interactive Multimedia 1 Dyears experience RM65OO + RM350 transport 1 Qloartertye performance bonus (4-6 months annually) Mid sized company (approx 2300+ 8 employees) . Current global leader in terms of trade volume (record breaking USD 2.82 Trillion). RnD Scientist; Pharma Industry 33 years old, Malay; Male 5 years Selangor Master in Medical Science RM36OO (Same as degree holder 8 with no research background) Malaysia really needs bright young scientist to bring us forward: Unfortunately; Malaysia prefers to play catch up and we will always be behind since we are followers: 1 Local company look down on local talent and bring in expats with "lots of experience" but zero output: We need to change. Local talents are more than willing to show that we are ready to take on challenges. Local companies, please give us a chance to prove ourselves. 8 Em aware that agency life can be brutal, so | admit I'm taking more than could take on. Im in a dilemma right 1 now: Should | stay for at least a year to polish my portfolio or start looking around for something in-house that's less brutal and have a better work life balance. The problem is, Im not sure where to look because what I'm doing now is not on the creative or social media management side. Im mainly 1 doing a lot of Iiaisons and managing the campaigns: 0 Convenience Store Assistant RM1SOO KL Female, 35, Malay 8am-Spm, Mon-Sat 1 Always see an increment in salary for MPG and wanna share 1 somethigociateVerasic Usearyo work RM37OO) in Project Management but work was on call 24/7, people would to find you all the time, every project is on a tight deadline etc. try The working culture in SG is def not as laid back as Malaysia: It's all about productivity, and giving it all. Of course the benefits are tradeoffs better purchasing power, cheaper food, great exposure, strong currency etc. Iguess the grass is always greener on the other side: But imagine this, after a stressful at work__you're going home. Not to your family, but to a small, rented cubicle. Imagine. By the time you wish to have a bit of social life after work, you are already tired: great day Started my career with RM 1,400 as fresh grad in SME company: Stayed for 4 yearst+ to experience as a Fullstack developer and last drawn was RM 3,100. Jumped ship to MNC company with starting salary of Rgain ZO@ocacarpatey Mumaed J 1 offer of RM 6,200. 10 months in the current job, went to several interviews and managed to secure an offer of RM 8,500. Before accepting the new offer and resigning, informed and discussed with my manager; apparently the manager wanted to retain me and countered offer with 8 a much higher salary of RM 8,900. gain Senior Barista & Manager F&B 3yeaaleexperience 0 RM29OO 6 workweek; 9 hour shifts 1 Owappoeketedndecpaaches, losing weight from not eating due to shortages of staff( you re 1 expected to be everywhere all at once, if not you're labeled as a slacker) and many more. day My first job after college was actually unrelated to software engineering: | joined a consulting firm for cybersecurity: There learnt to interact with wide range of customers, American Chinese and Indian: think 1 our Matayuiaicyltsragbengtr erd.able to converse respectfully with everyone is a valued skill: @malaysianpaygap After a year in cybersecurity consulting; picked up some tech skills and tried interviewing for software engineering roles: Was able 1 paraiadyrhankutcerefegalgarom friends. It's been an interesting journey since. Shortly after | joined, the pandemic hit and was "forced" to work from home; and it's been like that since then: ssgociate,firsudane booketore 1 alone: serve customers and control an inventory of 2,000 J titles. Coworkers from other departments cover for me on my 2 days off: Ialso manage 4 social media pages for different target markets, design ads, assist with the e-commerce sites, and planned events before the pandemic. 1 day My ex-employer once told me that there are 3 things that we usually look for in a job, but it's kinda 1 impossible for us to get all 3 which are healthy environment; decent pay & satisfaction. It's kinda true but also think that's one of his ways to tell me that | can't demand for 1 higher pay: But alhamdulillah, | found all 3 in my current job: hope that all of you will never settle for less, always your best to ask for a decent pay 1 because there are many companies out there that are willing to pay you more pray for the best for all of us  try Oh and as for my work, I'm basically just a normal programmer with a fancy 1 soetworeedgiteerigutale React; PHR; Wordpress, C#t and now RemixJs. Ialso worked on graphic logic drawings: Always been more to front end development; but sometimes work on backend too. believe I'm quite versatile and am always open to learning new things. So | guess that's another advice for those in IT. Be 1 aecapgracingnolghy ahoaanoyong right? @malaysianpaygap thank my lucky stars everyday to be given a good opportunity: My advice to those who are still struggling or contemplating is to 1 just believe in yourself and do what makes you happy: There is no right or wrong: Do what you love, trust in your decisions and definitely know your value. And i applaud every 1 KKM healthcare staff who continue to serve and persevere in this industryl Lastly, make some effort to be present and vocal. Speak in meetings try to understand what people are saying: CPM? CTR? 4 ROAS? Give suggestions in brainstorming: Dont be stuck in the mindset 'Ni bukan jobscope 1 aku': This tips is for getting better: Either you do or you don't: 1 knoW; its really hard for creatives to do all this_ 1 have been there. 1 what I did was, i speak to my team, | ask; i read, | look at competitors strategies, find visual references: This is how yoU grow: paid Finance Controller; MNC Kuala Lumpur  Bachelors Degree + CPA 1 Ries 9od eweriestcemonth salary) have always been in finance accounting roles. My pay adjustment mostly comes from promotions and probation 1 confirmation, coupled with the yearly inflation adjustment: As for client-agency relationship, the management (i.e account directors) totally let the clients 3 lord over the creatives and social execs when there's any disagreement and never protect J their own employees. They have not EPF for the @ employees since 2020, citing 1 financial issues due to the pandemic but money is deducted from our salary: Many employees knew about this but they chose to keep quiet about it for the fear of 8 being fired: paid love being a lawyer but love 1 alone won't get me anywhere in the mental health department: Sure will have the money to expensive stuff; but what is the use of expensive stuff if you do v not have the time to actually enjoy it @malaysianpaygap 1 buy Japanese Speaking Customer Service Representative 23, Malay, Female 1 Year working exp Kuala Lumpur No degree, have JLPT N1 1 Current Salary: RM 7000 (before deductions) 1 In this job, think even after years of exp its hard to have an increase of pay because the starting is already high. think it'Il be around 1 7K 8.5K range no matter if you have many years of exp or 1/2 yrs of exp (highest have seen is 1OK but thats for a jp native) Stress level depends on company; jobs answering calls are much more stressful than ones answering emails or mixture of emails and calls: One should always be on the lookout for new vacancies available in other giant shipping 1 companies worldwide and try to apply: Negotiating is key for a 1 good pay; you can demand and they will try to accommodate especially if they need you urgently: Also it's good to know 1 the standard pay from time to time. MEP Drafter; Consultant Firm (German Company) 29 years old Female Sarawak Native 6years experience Selangor Certificate of Architecture Salary RM3850 6 Benefit Individual Insurance (Fully paid by company as long as you still working here) Car parking (per ticket) Outpatient Claim RM1OOO Self Development Grant RM8OO 1 (Annual) No OT Bonus Annual leave 18 days Childcare leave 3days Exam/Study Leave 2 Calamity Leave 2 Compassionate 3 Working hour 9am-Spm (Mon- Fri) day day day Imo working as a barber won't make you rich. But it's fast money: The downside is that it can be risky: On good days, i can make around RM4OO including tips. On bad days, sometimes around RM5O-60_ 0 The big money comes from 0 housecall service where you only need to pay for petrol: No need to 1 pay for rent etc. Usually charge around RM35-50 per head depending on hairstyle_ Huge downside is that, working days are not that flexible. Usually i would aim to work on PH or weekend because people tend to come during those days. Job: daycare teacher + home tutor Salary: RM4.Sk-RM4.8k Gender: female 1 Race: Chinese Qualification: pre-u Years of experience: 1 don't have a company since I'm a home tutor: But for the daycare, it's 1 a small daycare owned by a couple, the amount of teachers that teach are around 10-15 teachers: My work hours are around 9 hours a Age: day: Job, industry; salary pre-tax: Location: Gender; age, race: Qualification/years of experience: (Below to be written in short chunks) How big is the company?: you can determine it by total employees or annual revenue Company type: Start-up? SMEs? MNCs? Industry: Increment history in this job: Average working hours: Do you think re @ valuable asset to the company? Are you happy in your job? Optional: Are you leading a team? If so, how many people: Does your current salary match with the market salary? How to grow in your field of work? Why did you accept the offer? you'1 So far would say that | am doing well here, as we practice open communication and always open for feedbacks. As the most junior in the team, my superior always value my ideas and propose few alternatives in 1 moving forward: @malaysianpaygap My advice to fresh graduates, please do not be too hard on yourself: Even though during my study, | did not graduate on time because failed few core papers; always be positive and 1 pick ourselves up. Trust the process and always ready to learn, start climbing up slowly: (p.s: It is a TREMENDOUS plus point if you have a good fluency in English and also equipped yourself with PowerBl + SQL + Excel, you will be irresistible workings hours as per contract is 4Ohrslweek, but in practice you'Il need to work till late night and even on weekends to ensure your work is done. i'd say this is even more true if you're doing funds in financial services (our timeline is only 3 weeks per engagement): There is no 3 overtime pay in my firm, but they convert it to 1 AL for every 8 hours OT you claim (OT hours to be recorded are upon approval of managers, but you still need to OT)  1 so far as had just recently joined, i have no practical experience of increments. but from my understanding during my studies, most people become a manager after 6 years with a salary of ~RM8k so its around 13% CAGR. from what my colleagues say as well; bonus is not much: then Covid hits Malaysia, the business are struggling to it running: So my ex boss laid me off; with some compensation and now the business is closed. @malaysianpaygap Since then, I've been struggling to find a work that fits my experiences and 1 skills. Almost all interviews |'ve go are offering me entry level salary: I'm getting desperate and | end up working for this company: Right now; I'm working with a local 8 tech company that have 3 branches around N9 and Selangor: At first, I'm happy with this job. Full of motivation as the bosses promised so many advantage. Everyday; I closed 5 to 6 deals. get Lessons learned first hand from my end: 1. Take that of faith, BUT be sure that u know the risks and consequences that comes with it boro roincand yboosekely benitycewith 1 them for life. If they aren't a good 9 family; you can either wallow about it for life OR take charge and make a change in your life 3. If you're not satisfied with the life re living then MOVE and change it. used to blame my circumstances and upbringing for everything, but once realized that have a choice enfoyeivogsibitartea beiga life 1 accountable with myself: It worked, and I'm here working in Malaysia, happier than ever! leap you'r living, Position: Lead Engineer Industry: Oil and Gas Age Race Gender: 33 Malay 8 Female Experience: 10 years J Job Location : KL Academic qualification: Master in 0 Engineering Last withdrawal salary: RM65O/ 1 About RMIsoOO/month: Lost my job during mco_ day: CompaNv A Or Companv B? IT Company A Company Been in the industry for like 10+ years Staff Not that many but enough to handle the projectslengagement not too sure about the longevity as the projects seems getting lesser but not too sure Location : Petaling, needs 2 train + Bus to arrive there so takes around 1.5hour on average to go there (3 hourst per day just for transportation) No WFH but can request if really needs it Handle 1 project so max 2 far, Every year there's at least 10 ppl from my dept whom resigned: | cant even recall how many farewell lunch/dinner had for the past 3yrs. Turnover rate is very high: nt everyone can handle the 1 workload here 1 They always say banks can offer good pay: but the pay cant even compensate our workload and here |am_ resigned and left for non-bank institution. Hope for the better future. Cheers! Saw that there's alot people commenting about it could be race, currency thingy and its impossible for Ist job to 8k+ above in MYR (non-convert) in the recent posts of MPG (like last week, finally time 1 to write this during cny) But its true, this job offer got few months ago offered arnd 8.5 MYR for me who' just graduated that year (with related exp in the tech with projects to show; exp in internship helped alot although not 1 the same company that offered me) Igo thru few rounds of interview and think did pretty OK & able to answer the question and solving them get got ) 've @MALAYSIANPAYGAP Senior Barista in F&B 25 2 years experience 0 2.2k Diploma F&B employees are being overworked due to shortage of 1 staffs and should at least be more to treat their back pains paid If you feel that you're in a toxic workplace, to validate it by speaking with a professional, or a friend: Do a "reality check" to see that if it's really just you or the environment is really bad. If it is, start 1 looking out because you don't deserve being there: You deserve better: This toxic environment does not deserve you: Also follow these accounts for great berechradrvkcrgand salary 1 @meiphing.co @apowermood and of course @malaysianpaygap 8 MPG inspired me to really seek my fair pay: Took a lot of work but | got where wanted to bel try commerce student takes time and more learning to start handling a data analyst job. However; just realised that there are new joiners where their qualification were not 1 relevant to this job as well; but are getting 4500+500. Iam getting tired and upset day by as my workload keep increasing by day but still seeing those 1 new joiners chilling: What should do? day day 2nd job was at a real estate company that paid RM8K a month Achieved KPI easily coz job wasnt 8 challenging: 5 months later got headhunted to work for govt agency with an increment of up to RMIOK. 8 KNOW: YOUR. WORTH. If can solve a problem within 30 minutes; it's because /'ve spent 10 years working to know how to 1 solve that problem in 30 minutes: me for my years, not for my time Pay Photographer Late 30's 10 years experience full rate is MYR 12,000 ] actually started out in Scgeete oes ecncterotoh_ 1 as a career: was lucky enough to land a position to photograph for an international travel magazine when | came back, so that allowed me to build a semi-stable income initially: My day During the past couple of years, started to take on freelance projects with some clients and agencies for the extra cash: The double income was great but challenging as there were many overlaps but learned how to poirdle eauhedeabojecinanciaome 1 literacy and decided to invest J most of my money to grow instead of it staying in savings which should pay off in the long term: Eventually decided to make the move to work in KL as growth was gettiagchieveamoredhereewith 2 1 years of experience and a stack of freelance projects under my portfolio, got invited to 10+ interviews and received 3 offers in under 2 months, meeting some amazing people in the process: Very good benefit Insurance; lots of AL ,5 days work(very very rare in retail) etc latest company is good and 1 their popularity rising which is why we're making money: Sales assistant can actually make more money than the average ppl 0 if you choose the *correct* company: My last one was shit and 1 underpaid you commission for the work you do_ Example me doing the same amount of sales but getting Doublework for asian company 1 especially Koreans, will back squeeze your money My they they Let's help some of us to understand Ramadan is significant Type something: for 24 hours, just treat this space aSa MalaysianUnderstandingGAP MALAVSIAN [ Pavgap why 2 Job: Head Corporate Development Company: One of the established cryptolweb3 MNCs Salary: RM43,110 1 bocatianninglt go ote (digieal in nomad adventure in the next year or so) Experience: 10+ years (financial industry; fintech; and cryptolweb3) 8 33, Chinese, Male 2 KL, Gig Economy Worker Position: Dasher Custodian Buddy Driver Industry: Car Rental Mid 30s, Malay; M 3 months and counting (Full-timer) Klang Valley Degree in Computer Science (Networking) 1 C RreR Zalaould ggingghermth.7k little bit of luck in "cedok" Living in the city where the living cost is high really pushes me to join this kind of gig economy: Waiting for a permanent job is quite exhausting and with the time passing by without making any source of  income is really shameful: NEEd VOUR Hi_I would like to share or some opinions on increments on salary during discussion on new offer_as U know the higher the salary; the higher the deductions from tax n EPF hence even if U get an increment of 20%-30% or more_ur nett pay won't have a big differences Hence would ppl negotiate on nett pay or gross pay? Speaking from my own experience coz | got a 20% increment from 12k to 14.5k but nett pay doesn't seem much only Advice _ get Management Graduate Trainee , FMCG MNC 22, Mixed Race (Malaysian) , Male 1year work experience KL Ist Class Masters Degree in Engineering (UK) 8 Start: RM 4500 1 After 1 year: RM 6500 The selection process is very competitive to land any Menageree OUraneeoositios iyou 1 have to prove yourself and showcase your transferable skills: NEVER UNDERESTIMATE the importance of creating a good Resume & in preparing yourself for a robust interview process which is to organise events and recruit roadshows as per requested by the management: Excluding the operation team that help to set up the venue for events, there is 1 actually no other event team member to cooperate with me. Iam in charge from brainstorming planning advertising organising and managing: After our graphic designer left the 1 company; started to help to manage our social media page with daily posting and create simple The Burnout Club: Imat a very stressful point in life Corporate Slayer: | want to network professionally The Free-Spirit: Im curious; creative, and enjoy learning The Extraordinary: | have rather unusual hobbies or big dreams The Available: HSingle and ready to mingle picnic mat arrangement for networking Hello! | start off my career as site supervisor for small interior design firm in Kota Damansara and slowly grow as interior designer at the same place. As interior designer; my job scope is to plan the project, do the concept | design, draw in autocad software, and interpret in 3d visual. Nit just that; have liaise with supplier; site supervising, and some documentation stuff. 3 Began to change my career path after 3 years as Interior Designer to be specialist in 3d visualization because to reduce my job scopes at first but after times i'm fall in love and realize it is really my passion. ManGsp" ( MANiFESTO LIKE IT ORNOT, OUR GOLDEN YEARS INTERSECT WITH WORK YEARS. FIND PRIDE IN WHATWE DO, SO LIFEIS FULFILLED. DO OUR BEST, AND DOIT OFTEN. EVERYONE IS SUFFERING PRIVATELY, DON'T INDULGE IN GOSSIP. SOME OPPORTUNITIES ONLY COME ONCE; SEIZE THEM BEFORE YOUR DOUBT. TRUST THE PROCESS.RESPECT DIFFERENCES. HAVE GRACE IN BAD TIMES. KNOW YOUR WORTH BUT BE REALISTIC. INSPIRE YOURSELF. HELPING OTHERS WON'T ROB YOU OF YOUR CHANCES, HELP OFTEN: TOGETHER; WE RISE EwecemingbgGese: from airport 1 Arrange busses (make sure they're on schedule) to bring guests to their hotels Accommodate guests in respective rooms Make sure there are guides readefgresterdretconeursth their 1 stay, handle their departure for Madinah/Makkah/Airport (back to Malaysia/sG) Rinse and repeat: 1 Content Writer 26, Indian, Female 10 months KL Did my degree in teaching TESL 1 Current salary RM4OOO J guess one learned was to always know your worth you know your work ethics, quality and effort. not to lowball yourself but be confident in asking what 1 you deservel The right company will recognise your talent and reward you accordingly thing Try last longer than a year: Following that; 1 dabbled in freelance transcribing but  eveporallyoomilyong bteerdfo personal matters. During my t-shirt business journey; | acquired valuable experience and self-taught various 1 PhotoshapdiarLigcae diancetingand (Facebook paid ads) . My experience in Facebook ads dates back to 2014 when participated in numerous online webinars. NoW; at the age of 34, decided to reenter the workforce and build a career. @malaysianpaygap 1 IWANT THAT JOB TOO: HONORABLE TOP MENTIONS MENTIONS LINKEDIN COMPANY WEBSITE GLASSDOOR FIND A HEADHUNTER GET REFERRAL FROM INDEED FRIENDS WORKING ABROAD TWITTER, DISCORD, JOBSTREET SG FB JOB GROUPS M Alavsian P av 6 A p job: Executive Assistant for 1 MNC , about RM6.9k Side hustle: Travel agentl consultant, earning ranges from hundreds to 6k (but can reach to 5 figure if really focused) 1 Started as was in dire need for money & | can balance between my studies (was doing Masters at the same time) Mainly on Facebook (personal & 1 page) tried going on TikTok and Instagram but too much to handle @silehudlleokr 3 Day too, NEED YOUR not a story but a question: my boyfriend is a victim of money mulel money laundering scam: Can he still employed if he was previously prosecuted and pleaded guilty? basically he was really desperate for money and his "friend" offered to pay my bf if he gave rented his bank cards to him: My bf was very naive and did it: Now; he was prosecuted under Akta Jenayah Kecil 29(1) for 1 case in Selangor and 1 more ongoing case in Sabah: He pleaded guilty in the Ist case because he was scared and had no funds for a lawyer: and recently a job offer didn't go through because he failed his background check. Can anyone from HR advise if victims can still be employed? He's trying to start over a new life but his past mistake keeps dragging him down Advice, get Years of experience: six months as interns. First full-time job as a process technician (6 months)at Singapore. 1 have been working as a security 1 officer for around 9 months: @malaysianpaygap think some of you may start to question would resign as process technician in the first place. It is because the factory needs to shut down frequently due to poor financial 1 performance, my OT opportunities are reduced, and found out operating machines and fixing them are not my cake. why Audit assistant 25/MalaylFemale 1 ] 1 year experience Current salary: RM 1,800.00 Location: Kuala Lumpur 1 Bachelor in Accountancy: How Did VOU VOur UNTERKSEQURE F've applied to more than 30 internship positions, and I'm not being too selective. My field of interest is cybersecurity and computer science, SO have been targeting internships in those areas. Additionally; my CGPA is slightly above 3.50, sO don't think my academic performance is that bad. would really appreciate it if you could shed some light on what recruiters typically look for in an intern: Is there something specific might be missing or not highlighting enough in my applications? suggestions or advice on how can increase my chances of securing an internship and starting within this month would be greatly appreciated: Any Although was happy wih my first job, 8 did not settle for less as aimed for the company with better benefits and environment. The journey was J pretty smooth to where am today because invest my time to learn from mentor and build my profile consistently: Overall am happy with my job as it provides me with many 1 learning opportunities and good work life balance_ top get My salary vs market- given my yrs of experience, I'm 95% convinced it is above Msian average but definitely 1 not the highest: But given the current workload, work culture & staff's perks, Im indeed already grateful: My advice to fellow SEs- the world is evolving, so must we: Keep learning new tech: Embrace the changes: Don't get comfortable with your current skills set: You'Il thank yourself @malaysianpaygap 1 Diar talov GE &y adceferng and all other comrades as well? Reporting AN UntaiR Dismissal? If decide to report them, could only ask for reinstatement (continue working with them) not for compensation or any other monetary remedy: Once | submit the forms, the Industrial Relations Officer will ask me to attend a reconciliation meeting ("rundingan damai") at their office. My former employer will also be required to attend. The officer will to get both parties to strike an agreeable solution. Sometimes two or three meetings maybe be required if there is further documents need to proceed or the negotiating positions keep changing: If the matter not settle, it will lead to Industrial Court. try The job can be very demanding and stressful at times. But it is exciting and 1 eveffererglecenar6 ooraingafriags you movement: It keeps you on your toes and plus, if you are not involved in any other work portfolio in the company; you don't bring your work back home: Which is among the reasons why love this job despite the its low pay scale for such a critical job function: 1 And no, we donthave any benefits related to discounted airline fare ticket since we don' t work for the airline. ~ MPG KL MEETUP 5PM ARRIVE & NOM Use your RV4O food voucher to purchase food TRIVIA BEGINS 6.30PM We will group YOu Up into trivia teams 8PM WIN & CHILL Prizes to be won before we end the trivia night! had to communicate with their 1 warehouse workers who spoke very little BM and understood English and would be chided if didn't understand my instructions or made the mistake themselves (wrongly packing orders, shipping out defect goods to customers, etc) The girl before me also only lasted a month; left a resignation letter one and left the next. That's already a red in and of itself: During staff aeetitier highelaragkigDitertor I spoke a language not everyone present could understand: they day flag What's the company culture like? Will you be managing the team i'm in? How do you manage them in terms of communications, meetings etc? For the team that i would be joining, how would you describe the overall vibe of everyone? If seem unsure, reluctant to 1 J answer; or their answer seems generic, it could be a sign that it's not the healthiest working environment. But to each their own, this is just based on my observation: can definitely make more on my 1 full time if job hop but the flexibility my current work provides is something i don't think i'Il ever get elsewhere so my plan is to build more on my freelance portfolio as of now: they 1. Management Graduate Trainee (GT) , FMCG 2. 22, Chinese, Female 3. 1 year (Started as intern now GT) 4.PJ {oGacbeior degree in business L RM45OO 1 It was one of my proudest achievement when i landed this job as the selection process was VERY competitive. Some GT from other function was selected 1/700 application: You have to shine & high visibility among the LT during ur internship to stand a 1 chance to be a GT. However; GT process was even harder as you are evaluated by each stint (Total 4 stints in commercial): If you get Although the role came with longer hours (>70h) , comparatively lower 1 comp (11k salary) than my previous position, and was essentially a step back (my colleagues were younger & better paid) , | embraced the temporary sacrifice and struggle. This taught me the value of 1 resilience and the willingness to endure short-term discomfort for the sake of long-term gains: Job Government school teacher (interior parts/Guru pedalaman) Industry: Education Salary RM29OO + RMIk allowance (increment RM225 yearly) Male, 27, Bumiputera Sabah 1 Degree in Teaching English as Second Language (TESL) 7 Years of experience 5 years Working hours 6-7 hours per Since saw a post about a senior teacher; let me make one for US 8 pedalaman teachers. Before that let me give you what is a guru pedalaman: Guru pedalaman basically means we teach in areas where it is very underdeveloped (usually in forest areas) , outside of areatowes aharaccedibeitatethes 1 special elaun called Elaun hidup susah which can be categorized in 4 day The most frustrating part is after shoot 200++ application using varies of medium and surprisingly none of them respond to my application. Architect is WoW career but reality is struggling very very hard: Message: 1 CEORFGC ereanagong Director; 1 Project Director; and etc. When people send their resume and cv and after you look at their profile please send a respond instead being ghost: People nowadays is struggles and also need to know the update either they been shortlisted or not. If overqualified or they not meet your expectations, please please please do respond: they they Job: Regional Biz Dev/Acc. Mngmt Industry: Fintech, global start up ~ (>350 pax) Salary pretax: RM 18K 1 ixalexpe 33in dagetaOteen) 10Y ~ Job and Salary History 2013, Sales: commission based, avg. RMI-3KJm 2016, Tech start up: RMSK (+669) , ended RM6K (+20% increment) 1 2018, Telco: RM8.5K (+41%) , ended 1 RM 11.25K (+32% promotion) @malaysianpaygap 2023, Fintech: RMI8K (+60%) KL, What jobs can you get if you major in economics? am graduated from Business Economics but currently working as QA Admin graduated from Mathematics and Economics, work as Economics Analyst for 2 years, now in HR, Talent and Learning Management: wonder what does other Economics graduates do too. do know of uni mates and friends working in related field MALAYSiANPAVGAP Fully remote is a blessed, | don't know how does it feel to wake up very early in the morning and 4 stuck in the traffic 5 days a week My time really precious to me Get 1 me another 1Ok / will jump ship and go to office everyday: pls: The lesson learned from my 1 Gen-X and Baby Boomers; "Fake it till you make it" and Hustle Your Up. Way There is a constant need to over perform and push yourself to the limit as operate in a fairly small team for my client and i have to handle and service more than 6 projects/campaigns at a time (which is considered normal in the ad world for account evergoee ertheagehscytbonstantly 1 works around the clock-creating pressure for myself to and keep up and show that im putting in the work. Work-life balance is unsurprisingly non-existent and all-nighters are common for some 8 (especially our creatives) , and the level of responsibility i'm given can often times wear on my mental health as feel i'm too inexperienced to handle the pressure. try NEEd YOUR I've done Holland Code and knowing Im good at Social and Im consider myself to try learning, training and development but I'm clueless where to start. don't have relevant experience and it's hard for my profile to stand a chance while job hunting: Ican't take stress and knowing both my physical and mental vulnerable. always on my own and I'm not really confidence how can get this true. hardly can focus a path to work on. Im to recover from pandemic stress, getting my financial and health stable_ Advice_. Artsy: yet Client Relationship Manager; Finance Industry KL, Female, 24, Malay, Single Bach: of Science graduate, Work 1 experience 8 months MNC, about 80-150 staffs First 3 month RM2750 basic Sth month RM34O0 basic Normal office hour; Mon Fri, 9am 6pm, WFH only Monthly commission ranged from 1 USD 800 unlimited (depends on your effort and willingness to do more)  How to Set Boundaries During internshid? Im currently doing my internship at an MNC company: There's a senior colleague that work together with because our work is mostly related: | understand that my job as an intern is to support whatever work that is going around but notice this senior colleague often pushes their work to me. Any jobs that already started but don't want to finish or jobs they think they don't like will ask me to do them_ Even when said no and told them have my workload, will say "I did this when was an intern, so by right, you should do it too" And as an intern myself; I'm stuck with the fact that "I am an intern so | should follow the orders" as well as "| should reject" they they they Manager (Big4) , Management Consulting 30, Chinese, Female 7 years of experience (5 years in consulting) Kuala Lumpur Bachelors from UK top university MYR9,500 J Consulcing hoarougt codldbe with 1 interesting as every engagement revolves around different subject matter: At the managerial level, your mental health is very much at the mercy of your clients and the capability of your team members: With 12-14 hours work per day; | wouldn't mind being a little more. paid Graduate Architect (Part 2) , rm2800 Location: Sarawak Qualification/years of experience: Masters of Architecture, started 1 working for this company as my first job in 2021 How big is the company?: Really small; it's just me, my boss and a drafter: Company type: Private Industry: Consultant/construction Increment history in this job: 1 2022> 2600 2023> 2800 Average working hours: 8am to 5.3Opm Thoughts: Salary at the start of career was 1,800, actually in Purchasing: Pivoted to HRIComms 8 after 4 years, and the rest is history: The big jump in salary was mainly just in the last 5 years (from 8,000 in 2015 to 18,000 in 8 2021) , mainly due to good luck in jumping on opportunities, good 1 Depftorgalacye egotiaotoon, and in- 1 Lesson learned: Identify competencies and passion early Skilsecs (cojeot bankgelment, 7 storytelling). Do plenty of research and prep for interviews and salary negotiation: Be brave to sit down with boss to discuss openly about career targets and expectations. my Job/Position: Lawyer Age: 25 Industry Experience: 2 Years Job Location: KL Academic Qualification: LLB(Hons) and CLP J Current Salary: RM8K (including aldiepce, without deducting tax 1 Insight: was a bit hesitant to post this here as earn on the higher scale for the legal profession. 8 Another example , lets say created a green colour poster; but superior no 1 1 didn't like the colour green, so she told me to redo everything and changed to colour red and proceed to 1 superior no 2 for approval: @malaysianpaygap Then, superior no2 didn't like the colour red, she wants me to change it to blue and a few details and proceed to the director: changed to the colour 1 blue, showed to the director; she wants it in green: Which is the same did on my first draft. 1 This keeps going until now: feel like a stupid ping pong ball getting passed around and this whole process 8 is time and energy consuming: thing Purchaser; Assistant Purchasing Officer; Manufacturing 24 years old, Chinese, Female 1.5years experience, based in Senai, Johor: Degree in International Business RM2.7k Purchaser is not a job just buy Purchaaec reeado havey: 1 responsible to maintain the production line can proceed continuously and ensure the the on-time delivery, also need to liaise between each internal department and supplier: Especially in this pandemic period and Russia-Ukraine Conflict, the supply chain is more unstable. Keep it up, all purchaser: believe i'm a valuable asset, from strats to execution of creative i've got my hands dirty: In this CO, as designers we're not just hands but 1 heads too. Everyone have their own skills so boss keep on brushing our skills. If our skill is the project's we'Il take the lead on said project: @malaysianpaygap Salary wise, it does match for Penang company: If it's in KL i don't think sO 3 but know co that pay less than what i'm getting and heavier workload with no work-life balance. key; Shop Manager Retail MNC , fashion brand RM45OO exclude allowances & commission 28, Male, Bachelor Degree in Retail Management, 4 yrs experience Location: KL 1 chose retail industry (fashion) as my career path because hate sedentary work style and like fashion too_ It was not an easy choice at first because people 8 around me tend to "look down" on retail job and this is really demotivating to me. Especially my relatives will give comments like "why you wasted your Degree to get a salesperson job rather than a proper office work"  Job: Claim Analyst Industry: Insurance Location KL Gender F Race Malay Age 24 Qualification: BSc Statistics and currently pursuing my studies in Master of Applied Statistics: 1 Working experience: This is my second job. my first job after finished my degree was Business Support Exec. Current Salary: RM 3399 (basic) + RM350 (fixed allowance) RM6OO (language allowance) = RM4349 1 My first salary as a contract worker is RM2300 at GLC company: For me, the job is not difficult as have to assist the other seniors to finish their task But I'm still glad that manage to learn all the insurance and medical terms in this company: Also, The seniors are so nice. "admit that my achievement could be by luck or divine intervention: If I can boil it down to just one thing that anyone can control though, is to be patiently and doggedly resourceful: No opportunities nearby? Find them elsewhere or look for remote opportunities: Don't have the skills? Find resources online and build those skills: Don't have the qualifications and getting a degree takes too long/is too expensive? Find well paying industries where qualifications are optional Dont have the network? Build one from the ground up by offering real value to _ Be patient; be resourceful, be Beoelea and you can achieve anything you set your mind to" Years of experience doesn't mean you are capable. Your hard work isn't going to speak for itself. Sometimes you need to scream it from the rooftops: People cant read minds & you need to ask for 'things that you want: Especially for promotions & $SSS 1.Improve and make known: Iam leading a team close to 40+ people, specifically looking into elements of Digital, and threat & vulnerability operations. I graduated as a Computer Science student and have been with the firm for 12 years: 1 Looking back 12 years ago, the IT security market in Malaysia is still underdeveloped and slow (let alone cyber) how have changed since then: @malaysianpaygap This is a sharing post (so not so much S about me; but rather the nature of the work) . was happy that an MPG-ian shared a little bit about penetration testing role, which is the motivation of 3 this post (I have been thinking to, as there are a lot of myths and misnomers in being a Cyber security professionallpenetration tester in the Big4/5 as well): would like to share more subsequent to what that has been posted and some sharing should 1 new graduates be keen on exploring this path. My experience however will be more related/aligned to the Cyber practicelteam in the Big4 however; this should not run far with other consultancy or Managed Security 8 Service Provider (MSSP)boutique firms. will try to keep it layman: things MALAYSIAN Pavgap integrity MAZE 1 start to build networking with other lawyers and find my own cases and do marketing: The first month i quit; my own income was around 3k+. The 1 second month i was a bit lucky because i got a pretty big case and my income on the Znd month was 5 figures! Other months got around 4-8k; depends on cases managed to v close. A bit culture shocked actually; first time pegang duit banyak hehe. Later on i met & married to a lawyer 0 and we set up our own firm: We planned things together and manage our finance properly: @malaysianpaygap 8 It's a niche industry; with the opportunity to be exposed to live surgeries something not many can 3 say they have seen: You have to put in the hours to learn what your customers need, stay updates with latest research and competitor info ] Occupational Health; Safety & Environment Asst: Manager Malayl 24 JMale 4 years experience Diploma Bays Ioking Ja J Initially started my career with 2k salary: Managed to climb the 95 @ ladder with competency certs and meeting yearly KPIs. Since im just a dip holder; took me quite a lot of 1 3 effort to convince the management of my worth: Regardless still have long journey to go. It's important to always sit down with your superior and acknowledge your boss expectations. Dont overpromise. Underpromise but overdeliver is a good strategy most of the time: day This is a SME (Medical team only 10 persons; included 2 of my bosses). Im one of the reps responsible for 8 central region accounts: Got confirmed in 2 mths and had 10% increment (RM3.2k to RM3.Sk 8 basic+ 800 allowance) . Felt abit low but strive for my incentives while learning as much as can: Will get promoted on April and had another increment to RMSk (4k basic + Ik transport allowance) as discussed in 1 meeting: By this year proceed to be Regional sales manager if manage to hit next quarter's target again RM6k + Ik allowance (exclude incentive) Supply Planner; FMCG 27, Malay; Female ~3 years Degree in Logistics/Supply Chain 2 RMS.Sk ] do enjoy the working culture of this company, and thinking of staying here for as long as could: 6x#Howevene think it's better to experience other companies as well; as it could help me develop 1 myself faster; professionally and personally: need a drive for that~ You guys mind sharing? CIMB The Complete Banker MayBank Standard Chartered Bank STAR Program IBM Hong Long Bank Management Associate Astro Management Associate Unilever Future Leaders Vitrox (Master's) Nintex Graduate Engineer Program British American Tobacco Global Graduate Program (Finance) Celcom (2 years) Within RMSk Judge 1: Veen Dee Tan currently: co-founder of @shophanya previously head of marketing at Fashion Valet and Retail Insight at Omnilytics Tackle on customer's needs, yourself in their shoes: You need to treetrgrpoypegraicatioroskers bso 1 that you can easily know what do the customer really needs. Help them to solve the issue with suggestions, let them know that we are truly wanted to help them, to have a win-win situation: Don't worry on meet-up a fussy customer; it might be mess up your mood for the rest of the but it do hoipaing to Gaiome stronger apart 0 put day, HR coordinator Hospitality (6 star luxury hotel) 23 MC 3 2 years experience Kuala Lumpur Rm25oo free staff meal Degree holder Joined the company in the year 2020 happeforeehe covdeandekig places 1 Personally don't mind as a fresh grad but soon do realise the management it self has lost it direction of it own Salary were cut 20% plus epf 9% and staff meal were budget cut too. made a portfolio and was able to a job a few months later asa UIUX Developer with a great team: It was a blessing because apart from coding; the job allowed me to be exposed to the field of User Experience, which | immediately fell in love with: felt that, after years of searching and failing, ! finally found a field that aligns with my values and interests andis something that can finally build career on: Im so much happier now II than in my 20's:' get my My salary during the time was around 7.5k, but i was also earning 3-4k on the side with my wedding photography: This gave me the confidence to and attract more clients. Soon enough, my contract edecherewaontracbecacoetiatche 7 time. @malaysianpaygap Oil price was terrible, SO had to cut salary by half: My profession at the time required no diploma or a degree but having a set of specific certificates is what helps uS with our position and salary: Hence, after all the money invested in my certificates, it kind of went down the drain: So i pursued wedding photography full time. But it wasn't my luck as only to enjoy being a full tetoreeddidgh-photogngpceviGorteaag 7 struggle to find clients as most of my existing booking clients are postponing a year or two. Some even cancelled, had to give back refunds: try they got When i see the workers face, all i see is an individual, so burned out; SO ridden by delays that were out of his control and so tired: When did the price of saving cost out-weighted the well-being of the workers? Perhaps why loyalty to the company is a thing of the past; we are but mere assets to be used, squeezed and be replaced when our performance "is not up to par" guilt dry 1 first increment after 3 years of 8 working there, 2.3 to 2.5k, i was beyond happy: Got my first child the same year: Expenses was getting tight so i had to challenge myself to a bigger pay in the company or bounce. There was an opening, | offered myself and the directors agreed but 1 ThogthaSiasseptendbert2ozhaneefew discussions with the wife i finally made the decision to stay for another 3 months, it was hard for me to leave becuase know its gonna be tough for a male my age to get another job that pays more than this and i cant risk that since was providing for the 1 family and also the love had grow for this company: It was just impossible for me to leave. @malaysianpaygap got get Cashier (In a convenient shop ) 25 Female Chindian 4+ years High School Basic + OT + Allowance RM 1.7K 2k Pahang have been working with the same 1 company for more than 4 years (going 5 ) . It's a 12 hours working 6 days a week for the rest of the year: Except on Eid insisted on 2 days off: am also responsible for keying in invoices and some misc data entry work at the store_ day; gung 4S shop 60 00 first-time_materializing ur Using high quality meta (5 like stain less stee(s , Gung i$ homegro Wn je welry bran d that de (i Vers quality Products with e C 0 Co n S C i 0 4 5 Packagin g Sponsored AMLAYSian PaygaP Present Pcoudly X i0 Rmi5o Gift Voucher 150 vouchecs RM Cowrde the penonalited Nonl Tad arua logo 0 n lY Yi Ooi If Singapore were a colour, it would be beige; Malaysia would be a kaleidoscope of colours: From the to the food, the default is people and uninteresting as a wholer when you find great food or fun people it's actually such a treat: It's really hard to describe, but that's just my experience of how things have been. Malaysia is already so similar to in a lot of ways, but | still Segapooet almost suffocated here sometimes. You may post this as an instastory: This is my reaction to the toxicity issue you mentioned yesterday 8 Admin, think you have revealed how toxic and cowardice most of uS are We see employers as 8 8 feudal lords whom we cannot touch: That's why some of US acts like brats and get upset when we read about people who earns a lot: 8 We want to bring them down to 0 our level to feel "equal"_ Hello guys, these are the people Cs who challenged their feudal lords stepped out of their comfort zone and look for something that is worthy of their time and effort: They 1 Working Hours: work at least 5 days a week for 8-9 hours and post daily opening hours + daily dessert menu at least since our operation is 7 days a 1 L Tekhdleteason wy_ write this is to get a public feedback on whether is this a fair wage for someone of my background, age, and work experience in this type of company: c6 8 Interpreter/Translator (Remote) 4.9k minimum without OT includes medical benefits, 12 annual leaves, can request for OT if you want higher salary, EPF Sosco Female 20 Chinese high yenoole SPMaroldieres during 1 MNC , almost half a million employees worldwide, tens of billions of dollars revenue Average working hours 45 hours a week including 1 hour lunch every 9 My personal experience is working as a translator by amount of work done at first for my first 1.5 year being paid in MYR. Then shifted into doing freelance translation which set my own rate at 0.02S/word (in USD). terieg differenc platforkigghere and 1 multiple projects allow me huge progressions in my translating career, also boosting my resume that attach on my freelance profile so that more people would hire me. day paid Job: Data Scientist for SME about rm 4.5k. (fresh grad) Side Hustle: Selling Betta fish and do youtube contents. Earning per month can from (2k to 10k) depends on active i am: Started as a hobby since was 1 small: During my uni times i saw this can grow as a side business. 8 competiontvand joarited to post videos in youtube and other social platforms. My customer 3 grew from there: Competition organizers and farm owners started to invite me to do content about thier place or event: At first, J i did not charge them, but some kind souls started to pay me and the others follow: 1 6 months into working noW; it wasnt as easy as i thought since i have 9-6 job. Grooming and taking care of betta fish needs alot of patience and effort: Iam slowly trying to back my momentum: @sidshutlouekrs Day get how base get NEED YOUR My dad suffered from minor stroke many years ag0 and it affected his and livelihood. So the only job he could get and do is as a security guard. But all the jobs he had as a guard doesn't give him an off He has to work 7 days a week, 12 hours a day (Zpm-Zam). If he wants an off it's unpaid leave: find this really frustrating: The hours are long and tedious while the pay ranges between the range of RMISOO-RM22OO. Advice__ body day: day; made the decision to take up the independent contractor role not because wanted to freelance. 1 1 started getting sick a lot in Singapore and was hospitalized several times. My body was always tired and was miserable. wasn't miserable with the job, no. My body just couldn't cope: 1 had stayed in JB while working in SG and the travel in and out were horrendous. Iwould constantly find myself crying myself to sleep just because I'm tired. Beside the fatigue and the constant illnesses, missed 1 my family so bad. Sg was the first time Iwas away from family for so long since had studied locally. Turned out Imjust not cut out for this: @malaysianpaygap And it takes probably a team of 6-7 to perform all these tasks but the Architect typically wears the hat of these 6-7 roles. Which means high soers endirorieen tso ocorksioaal long 1 balance_ @malaysianpaygap Even the most passionate of Architects struggle to keep up with the workload and eventually burn out and change industries. Something should be done to keep the younger talents to stay motivated and grow in 1 this industry but / don't think this kind of work culture will appeal to the younger professionals It's an industry that needs to be reformed:  took this job because the comms are recurring with every order from your clients. Was initially looking for a management role as my passion is 1 leading and developing a team: Came Jan 23 got my first deal in of RM 800k. Feb was told that direction has changed and I'm not allowed to sell to the country that was selling in, sO sourced for new clients and grew my smaller clients in other countries. Built up my smaller clients from an initial 1 order of RM 8,000 all the way to RM 400,000 in less than 6 months. Then company told me direction has changed and that they found a new distributor for that particular country so | can't sell to my existing client anymore. All sales for that country will 3 go through the distributor: RM 15k in monthly comms was wiped out in that decision @malaysianpaygap Job: Molecular Biologist (Research assistant) Industry: Biotech 1 Seaating- RM25OO After half year probation RM27O0 After Ist year: RM28O0+ After 2nd year: RM29OO+ 26 Gender: Female Race: Chinese 1 Biozechacogysc  (Hons) Experience: 0.5 year when starting this job Age: To sum it up, 1 -i took online courses and include them in my resume and Linkedln profile spoke to as many recruiters as possible but only applied for one role be confident during interview and make company feel that they have to work hard to get you be passionate about your current role. That would really paint you in a 1 geriehers the eyes of the @malaysianpaygap My company is a local Chinese company with around 4-5k employees in Shanghai (main HQ): My company basically produces 1 medical instruments that focuses on diagnostics and theranostics: team is a R&D team works closely with hospitals (primarily Nuclear Medicine and Radiology Department) and focuses on clinical researches: was struggling when i just started 1 my job, as have zero experience on clinical, spend almost a year to familiar to my job and lead task independently: My Job Barista Industry : Coffee Basic Rm16oo Salarylafter tax RM2.Sk Hours 9-10, off once a week Location Selangor Gender; Age, Race M21/ Malay+Indian 1 Qualificationlyears of experience : 10 Months @malaysianpaygap 1 absolutely love this job while at the same wanting it to be the last job / work, because it can't get any more perfect than this for a 9-5. Awesome HQ and employers. Chill workplace. (tangentially, quite a few illustrators know used to be science or engineering majors! And even those who go to art school don't necessarily taught about the businessl practical side of things. Illustration is a field where paper qualifications hold little weight ) 2. aman illustrator too and looking to get into the publishing industry; how to start? Figure out what specific types of illustration you want to find working illustrators who do that sort of illustration and see what you can learn from their work, then give yourself art briefs and start making portfolio pieces. So if you want to illustrate short stories, find some short stories you like and illustrate them as a personal project: And so on: get do, Need Hi. |am an Msc. Engineering graduate. My plan was always to be a lecturer after complete my phd: But being a master student especially during the pandemic was extremely hard so i was kind of demotivated to pursue my phd: So i tried to enter the industry and was lucky enough to be offerred a trainer position which is almost similar to what i want to do initially; a lecturer: However; really do know very little regarding the path that im taking, does the trainer position would give sustain in the industry; even without the actual experience of becoming an engineer? Would appreciate if there's anyone with much more experience as a trainer to share how much can we grow in this path: Advice,, Vour Law Graduate currently working as Coway Consultant & Takaful Advisor 29 Indian Male 2 years plus experience in Legal 1 World & 4 years in Sales Current job: Flexible Timing 1 Current Salary Commission: 8 RM2k RMIOk depending on my motivation and hard work Growing up in B40 family; parents oheralled abeing erkpoyed with 1 fixed salary & slow increment) but in reality it's not that easy tho, there's no work life balance (especially in legal field) and most of the time it will be a toxic environment: Staff nurse u29 Flsabahan/32 basic rm3.2k elaun 1.6k Ilyears in gov sector_. 3years nursing diploma . 1 be a nurse said: the gaji is besar said: LOL Ilyears don't even make Sk/month  even if futher study only add 1 rm1o0 to basic now work at covid ward extra rm6o0 la_ too bad most of our junior is contract nurse. not enough staff: need to work double shift 2-3 times a week: they they gaji. get run a business with 10 employees, and pay each one between RM35OO and RM65OO, depending on their position because no 2 jobs are alike. Some of them are recent graduates and have no background in the relevant fields. Since our office is in KL,; we try to pay a minimum wage and as close to MNCs as possible:' Social media executive 26 Female 3 Malay 6months in Fresh grad 1 Raa26oJossalererent-6sce 1 confirm staff) Degree in Mass communication Otesidelleaguecevel thoughy 1 work for a small company, 10% increment increase every year; according to other staff. Boss like to micromanage employees; new marketing ideas unheard of. paid my malaysianpaygap 18 74 PAY GAP Posts Followers Following ALL Goodbye Wage Taboo Community DM ur current salary anonymously sooN for pay transparency + advocate for better salary in MALAYSIA ALL RACES Click "format", dms are deleted dail 117 81.4K PAV Posts Followers Following GAP Goodbye Wage Taboo Within Community DM ur current anonymously SOON for pay transparency + advocate for better salary in MALAYSIA Click "format" dms are deleted daily discord gg/ZAGMKCGPSK 551 217K Posts Followers Following 365 Goodbye Wage Taboo [Mon-Fri] Community Organization DM ur current salary anonymously DaySI for pay transparency advocate for better work life DMs are deleted daily #mpgstories salary MALAYSIAN Pavgap Marine Engineer; Engineering (Shipping) , Salary Currently at RM8.4k before tax Location: Malaysian waters (Terengganu & sometimes East Malaysian waters) Male, 31, Indian Qualification/years of experience: Diploma in Marine Engineering, 9 years of experience. 1 started off as an engine cadet after getting my Diploma in Marine Engineering: During that time 2012-2014 we required 12 months of seatime as an engine cadet (equivalent to internship) on ships with engine propulsion of 3000kilowatts and above to qualify us tarine Depareraent atioalaysiahe 1 sailed with foreign going container ships till was 4th engineer: Worked my way up from engine cadet to Sth engineer and to 4th engineer: The pay scale for an engine cadet received was 500usd per month: Then 1800usd per month as a Sth engineer As a 4th engineer received 2850usd/ month: The contracts were 5 months +I- 1month: Realizing there are a whole lot more beyond wages that require awareness, MPG is constantly creating space for broader conversations spanning across topics: "Your IS MALAY" YOU Bo0 AS @L Guess My 6:54 Menn "M A WorK Twurk Rank 'IN DrogreSS to What did learn this year about work & life? 'When | broke down uncontrollably Nrent of my team and teaes Type something-_= flowed as / rode home knew something EngLish WOLVI Pretty Cood FoR WOBK  9.18 THAT?U Job MalavsianPAYGAP Workplace Harassment Statement From Okay - No_ yout 'just wasn t right" "Any SME's first two to three years are usually negative: Building a clientele is what is most important in the beginning: Although the work will be demanding, once we are successful, we want to share our success with the employees: Unfortunately, those who joined at the beginning don't stick around long enough to share in our success (we are not blaming them for this) In the end,those who joined later reap the benefits. The company increases compensation as it performs better. As an employer, would prefer that the company concentrate more on Malaysian projects, but sadly, Malaysian clients don't pay enough for us to be able to stay in business:' 1. How did you into the industry with a complete unrelated academic background? How did you earn credibility? Nobody really cares what academic qualifications you have when it comes to illustration-it's about how you can solve visual problems for specific client needs_ Ed built up a portfolio since my university days, illustrating for the college newspaper and other student publications in my free time. My portfolio showed potential clients that could make interesting work about a range of topics from non-fiction and news to fiction: People only hire based on what see; you've to show them that you're capable of doing the work they need, whether it's packaging illustration, children's book illustration, editorial illustration, book covers, game art and so on: get they got The working environment was great: The increment machanism was fair enough; my Ist-3rd year increment:: 1 annual,about 19K.breOnthe boeas on your annual performances. We also have subsidize for our lunch and dinner if u OT, as well as company shuttle to company; so basically i spend minimally on meals and transportation to work 1 1 work 9am-6pm mon-fri; OT is not necessary as long u finish your tasks before deadlines. my KNow Betore You MV StoRv GET SALTY; N "Your family must be rich, you're so lucky", said by people who didn't know me; all just because | was studying in London: Job: Red Team Operator Company: GLC Salary: RM 12,000 + 3 months annual bonus 0 Ageation: KL Gender: Male Race: Malay Qualification: Degree Years of experience: 4 @malaysianpaygap 1 main responsibility is to hack company assets. If you watch the "Mr: Robot" series, my tasks are pretty similar: hacking servers, website , 8 mobile phones, conducting real phishing attacks on internal staff; and breaking into unauthorized premises. My While am generally content with job scope and the various challenges it poses to help me grow in my 1 professional development; the salary does not justify the work and responsibilities undertaken by the Architect. The liabilities and the immense role of the Architect (Principal Submitting Person for authority approvals, Superintendent Officer of a construction site, Certifier clie Prorc Coutasctarbitcator between 1 enormous @malaysianpaygap my 1 corre teck hopor tandforallorecrore to anywhere. work during US hours so from 1Opm 6am more or less. Since it's a small dev team, we also take turns doing tech support standbys on a weekly basis: mom's a bit worried for me about this job since Im awake all night then sleep in till noon: She says it's unhealthy: But I've always been an owl: My brain somehow 1 functions better at night. My Summary: 1 Started this role in Oct 2022. Wanted a higher pay but my direct boss said if meet RM 1.5mil then | can get the pay that want. First 3 months was just lead sourcing and building clientele. No training was really provided so everything sort f just learned on my own: It was a new 1 industry for me but at the end of sales is sales: So first 3 months was me learning about the do's and don' the how and how not to of the business. My role was to grow existing accounts passed to me as well as 3 sourced for new accounts. @malaysianpaygap day; 'ts, MALAYSIAN REALITY WorKiNG ChECk IN SiNGADORE After working in Singapore, realized really love Malaysia. Malaysians are the friendliest and warmest: Yeah; I do regret working in Singapore-_and | can't wait to return back. Saya Anak Malaysia. Senior Internal Auditor; shared services, RMZ.Sk Selangor ACCA, 7 years of experience 0 Choosing not to reveal my age, gender and race because experience matters more IMO. Since PTPTN doesn't cover professional courses like CAT & ACCA, | started off my career as a 1 part time accounts assistant at a small company of 5 to fund my studies: had to even borrow money from friends to pay for my fees at some point (tengkiu frens who will be reading this and know it's me 6 Slowly progressed to MNCS, holding different global roles in various niches. 1 Generally; my boss(es) do not micromanage us and gives US a certain level of freedom to express our creativity: They offer us perks like I bantcabudget ahd evekly sorkevhat 1 flexi working hour: We are partially corporate like, hence we can wear what we enjoy so long it's appropriate for workday: You can call it a localised family: @malaysianpaygap cb 8 Sr: Copywriter (ENG) Beauty and wellness industry 30, Chinese, "Female"INon-Binary 1year at this position (in-house) 4 years agency exp, Zyr freelance 8 Klang Valley Diploma in Mass Comm 1 Current salary: RM7,500 Others: Epf; income hospitalization insurance, rm300 medical claims plyear Dedpiteeucperiocreimnerolleagees 1 in KPI. Did get bonus, but only half a month-ish: Definitely more work-life balance than agency; have never needed to OT or work weekends. Similar salary to what another big agency offered me too_ tax, Quality Engineer (manufacturing) 27, Malay; Male Selengor 8 RMZOOO The main reason submitted this is because saw previous post regarding same position with rm2.2k salary: feel quite frustrated to see similar role as metartingtfelerywatacteer Whar 1 RM2.3k salary as a technician and  changed company once. The first month of my career was very challenging; as i had no clue and no 8 sense of direction in the field where im not familiar: But patience is and had to find the social ladder to be where im at today: @malaysianpaygap The first year of working there had to do something to get a bigger pay as 1 was trying to tie the knot: It ddint go well when my own manager stab me in the back, he created a false story of each and every employee just so he can eliminate all of us and replace with his own people. The directors almost get the police on our tails. Later on the director call his bluff and 1 truth was out. He was replacing all of us so that he can secretly steal all the tenders to his own start up company: Justice was servel key, The tradeoffs are worthy: Here in [ fetw way more exposure in my eartcigapoeid;" field, way more (even at my seniority) and the clients are so much more sophisticated: Honestly, this is the part which makes me regret not moving sooner: was already in quite a large, notable firm in KL but the work did almost seems like peanuts now compared to what get to do here now: The exposure and potential for career growth here is massive. She"$ ail dkovit the nght cdn his 'job? broke his 3t Mp Faces 3+ MPG Grst @vCv Kl meetup 13.05.2023 #hat Aizza Uom gmess Iff %tagw +he mee+ Happy And in the end my drink took an hour to arrive, but i'm not angry at the worker; i'm much more angry at the company that forced the poor worker into such a position, he is constantly taking orders, making drinks while the food delivery platform orders are ringing non- stop, he apologized to every abang driver and to me as well for the delay: NEEd YoUR Hi Mpayg; company is in the midst of retrenching staff due to internal issue. Iam currently 4 months pregnant. would like to seek the HR expertise advises if i should look for another job during while being pregnant: Do need to disclose my pregnancy during an interview or should i put on hold for job search? Please help me to ask for the opinions as am very worried on my financial at the moment. Thank you ADVICE,, My L "My 20s was spent in many  different jobs: Hotel Front Desk; Financial Due Diligence; Market Intelligence and Social Media Marketing: You name it: When was 30, | enrolled into a 3- mths coding bootcamp in hope for more stable income with a new skill" July 31 (Sun) 3-5pm a reality game show of mock-up interviews practice your interview skill and receive immediate feedbacks YouTube Live (you can choose to turn off your camera) As a father and a husband, it was awful to have them go thru all the hardships with me. During this time, got a request from a local company in Sarawak to do a video for Covid awareness. This was the time arscaverdeas. Soorcofteiceloastv 1 station opened up and had the chance to join my friends and became a vendor them: @malaysianpaygap fast forward 2022, i'm doing tv shows, weddings and voiceovers. just wanna share with everyone that your passion can be your fulltime job, but based on my experience. You gotta be more aware of what you wanna do. Plan out your life. Anything is possible, you just Soata-"ororealu herererdihave tiaies 7 when you feel like giving up but you are your own vehicle. You decide where your life goes: for Job: Entomologist Industry: Pest Control Salary: S$2.9k Location: Singapore Gender age race: M / 25 Chinese Qualification years of experience: Bachelor's degree in Applied Biology <1 year of work experience @malaysianpaygap Not many people heard of this job. 1 Epeoiaofogist inseceld bioJogisaveho different fields to explore such as pest control, agriculture, forensics, veterinary; etc. Normally, most will opt for pest control industry because the market demand is high: It reaches to a point where most of us will secure jobs before graduation. this major is very niche and only selected public universities offer this major: Yet, Business Analyst/Consultant (IT Banking/Fintech) Chinese, Male 2.5 years Master's degree, chemical engineering WFHJKL RM6,300 before deductions [ 1. This is a rising industry & any1 who has no experience can start fresh in some of the companies 2. It is a very good place for fresh 1 grad to start their career as the career path is usually quite vast (You won't be stuck in the same position for long, if you work hard) 3. It is quite fun if you like talking to but not enough to become a salehigerse of the bestlmost 1 secured jobs during the pandemic as most work done are through online 5. If in doubt; just give it a try; this industry needs a huge amount of good resources 27, ppl Intel GT (I year contract) Nestle Management Trainee Program EDCE Graduate Trainee at Mondelez International Khazanah Craduate Trainee Programmes Affin Management Program Axiata Graduate Program DIGI Philip Morris Bursa Malaysia Graduate Talent Program Vitrox (Bachelor's) Takaful JP Morgan Asia Analyst Development Program Dell BASF Digital Trainee Program Capgemini Graduate Program (18 months) Unilever Young Manager Program (2 years) Baker Hughes Early Career Program Within Rm4k Career insights: Sales industry is in fact not for everyone and it relies so much on interpersonal skills & 8 communication skills. For medical device sales, the role is way tougher as your clients are all medical specialists (cardiologist, gynaecologist & etc, depends on what re selling) . That's why in 3 8 mths have 3 colleagues joined and left: The turnover rate is high because it's really not a job for everyone. Sometimes you can feel you're wasting your life while waiting to meet them, as wouldn't know when they will be 1 free to meet you: You could wait for hours and only to talk to them for like 3-5 mins. Anyhow managed to hit 1.1 m sales during the Ist quarter so that's why find a purpose to stay: you' 1 you get During this year townhall (before the release of remuneration letter) , our leaders show that all departments performed well and reached target but did not mention anything on bonus: Few days ago, finally released the remuneration letter and Iam DEVASTED to know that did not even get 1.5 month of bonus: After discussing with colleagues, 1 onoy thontheanvesogeebemployees didn't receive any bonus even though OT-ing regularly during peak periods End up, some people tendered right after looking at the remuneration letter: 3 NoW; I'm contemplating the idea of joining another Big 4 firm. If there are any Big 4's peeps around, do share the bonus that you guys as it would help me consider whether to move to anothier Big 4 firm: they get 1. Mostly WFH/Hybrid, rarely on-site 2. Generally decent work-life balance except during peak prolectronico industry expanding 1 in Penang and Batu Kawan, thousands more jobs in next few years. Still OK to take EEEICS course for degreelmaster: Not like super lucrative but the job market is there for sure 4. Good opportunity for growth 1 5. Big company advantage: easy to internal transfer to other departments as well fully Key TAkeaWAYS 1. Our countryis in need of wage growth together with rising living costs. 2. Wages being paid according to the marketplace is not an indicator to set compensation fairly: 3. Never stop achieving self- improvement to enhance work performance. At the end of the you gotta be worth it: day; Job: iOS Developer (Front-end) Location: KL Gender: Male Age: 23 Race: Chinese 1 Sciercceation: Bachelor of Computer Years of 2.5 Salary pre-tax: 6000 MYR @malaysianpaygap g Company size: about 1O0ish employee Company Type: SME Industry: Techjit Exp: 3 Job: cabin crew in Middle East country; aviation v Age: 30, Female 7 years with this current airline Diploma holder Position: Business Class Cabin Crew 1 Location: Living in Middle East but traveling around the world: @malaysianpaygap Salary: average RMISK-RM18K 1 (including layover allowance, can earn more if flying hours are higher ) 1 Bookstores and booksellers supporting local titles, publishers and media platforms paying better; audiences appreciating and supporting work (and having J disposable income to spend on it) , Sharitganartiapacry-btitaingpeer 1 artists advocating for their worth, policymakers who truly understand what needs to be done for the arts to flourish .all of these are connected and needed. Executive, Education Management 3yedalay, Female 1 KL Master Degree ] Basic RM3OOO 3 1 think collectively; Malaysians are asking for deserving wages so at the end of the we have some peace of mind tak perlu sampai 1 berikat perut. day, Now we take a fix monthly salary from our firm 5k per head: Not too high, but 1 not too low: | felt relieved no more feeling anxious going to work takutkan bos. Flexible hours as well: @malaysianpaygap Im still in my late 20s, and love being v a lawyer: hope other lawyers being bullied by a legal firm can start your own bussiness as well Dont give up a lawyer: Know your worth, Deaple Battheonetozedarorroblems 1 surely we can help others too being 8 So a huge part of the job scope is to provide technical support & 8 assistance during live surgeries on the product side of instruments and implants. You may sometimes be required to scrub up and be part of the surgical team, depending on the needs of the hospital. ] The more higher rank u keep working on it, the lesser time u have with your family find a job that suite your lifestyle Unhappy with your current situation? do something about it, otherwise stay miserable 2. Prioritize what you value think first of all, let me just put it out there cyber security is not for the weak heartedunwilled: The learning curve is steep, you'Il need a continuous drive (passion is important but it can only bring you sO 1 potential burning out due to work hours spent on research/dev; reading, and doing the work. New things come in within a snap of the finger: a 0-day, major flaw; hacking incident is enough to have a cascade effect from the top (regulators like BNM) all the way down $ from Board's expectations and clients seeking cyber services: It may be ridiculous but in the eyes of your clients you're supposed to be the subject matter expert: in reality, the 3 new "thing" (new meaning it's level playing ground info is limited) may take time for experts to understand and advise next steps. So, often times you'Il need to scramble and have a point of view, 1 and guide clients If you're able to survive and pull through; it may give you a sense of achievement that it's worth it. @malaysianpaygap tl;dr: have a level head to know what you're heading into, and it's a lot more 8 than cyber security (technical understanding and skills sets) far, "One thing that worked well for me was making a list of the fastest growing companies in the space; find out how | can add value to them through network, and just emailing the CEOs directly: It took roughly 9 years to to where | am now: Now Im earning between USD 140k 260k yearly depending on client work as a consultant" my get Accepting the MNC co offer as it's more aligned to my long term professional goal and bigger playing field. advise would be; in "jumping" co, remember that you're choosing a new leader too, not just 1 accepting better salary. There was a whole bunch of green flags in the iv stages and as much as was interviewed, i too interviewed them: My fav question is "what happened to the last person who filled this role?" Gave a glimpse of actual happening: 3 Posing this question for the one you'Il be working under; tells their character in leadership, so please read between the lines. Hopes my sharing helps fellow creatives! @malaysianpaygap My Don't indulge in gossips and people will respect you: There are Tfigoy benolevof the >braekground: 1 professional ones, you will last long in the company bcs it will help you with your work But if you have lunch with gossipers most of the time, your progress is slower: Although am 29, | notice people of my age and younger usually only stay max 2 years bcs 5 can't stand the "rapid change". But those of uS who just do "muka tak malu" and join managers from other departments for lunch, could cope better during the change. They share advices and personal stories too, so it's really a good place to network for life bereershan only for personal 1 they Job: Geologist Industry: Construction Soil Investigation (SI) Company Salary: RM2800 + RM750 allowance Male/3O/Malay Location: Kuala Lumpur Qualificationlyears of experience: Geology Degree/ 5 years/ local uni 1 Cotapanployee SMess than 20 Increment history in this job: Offered RM22OO + RM3OO allowance Upon confirmation RM25OO + RM3OO allowance Working hours: 8.30am to 5.08pin (Monday- Friday; Saturday half-day) Head Information Systems Malaysia 32, Female, Malaysian-Chinese 5 Bachelors Degree in Software Engineering 10 years working experience in IT : field (non programming related) . KL. 8 Current Salary pre-tax: approx 300k per annum including bonuses: 2 Standard medical health insurance_ No company car or other benefits - in-kind:. 8 1 So i decided to create options instead of just giving one. But non of my work are getting reviewed and approved: 1 followed up, but kept on dodging me and say "no comments; lets KIV" to all my contents for the past few months. @malaysianpaygap 1 Its weird that they assigned me to create weekly content; but end up not getting reviewed and published at all: And now; Company X's social media seems very dead. And i'm very-. very 1 heartbroken to see it. 8 they Beauty/Lifestyle/Skincare Industry, Influencer Marketing Specialist, Remote based, 31, monthly pay of RM11,1OO. work for a Singaporean based startup. Not an easy job. The first two months was hovered by my manager (a really good mentor) every single Sheyt wincoticedt errer in the email? 1 words aren't stringed properly? Feedback will be filled in my Slack within 5 seconds If you are untidy; unorganized, & not Netaagrjeateclast in 2 weeks: 1 You have to be a native English speaker and an absolute grammar police or else you won't be taken seriously: The job gave me trauma at first but 1 learned a lot from my mentor and my CO-workers. If anybody thinks influencer marketing is easy; I'd love to see them work around the clock; sometimes don't get enough sleep (this happens very rarely) . Timing is pretty flexible As long as my work is done Iget to plan my around doing whatever want. Malay; day: My try: day Social Worker; NGO 26, Female 4 years Perak Degree in Psychology currently Pursuing Masters in Counseling Current Salary 1.9K; No allowance 3 1 Or Started with 1.8K. Had increment only once. 45 hours of working per week. If there's need have to work on off days and no overtime 1 incentive. Replacement by hours as compensation: Intrinsically very rewarding job. Gives meaning in life. Plays a role as a catalyst of change. Lots of character growth: WORK SLAYER SUNNIT "IM JUST A WORK SLAVE" NONONO.LET'S CHANGE THE NARRATIVE: COME JOIN US FORA 2-DAY IN PERSON SUMMIT TO LEARN FROM THE BEST MINDS ON MAKING MALAVSian WORK, WORK FOR YOU: Pavgap NEED VOUR Im currently studying postgraduate working on thesis and working contract office job_ Im 33 this year: I'm lost and not sure where to focus or find my ground: | further my studies so could land better job in edu field. Back then was subject private teacher earning around 3k MYR and it's not sufficient as financial commitment grow: tried lecturer job in private college and left because of prolonged 50% paycut: I'm interested to explore educational psychologist role and there's no clear career path in Malaysia. Unlike counselor can be licensed and clinical psychology can be registered: I'm like lost bird, don't know where to start or position myself: Advice_, my The only silver lining see here is that im given the opportunity to work on big budget projects, garner experience; and make connections as the people work with (particularly our creatives and higher ups) have very successful careers and are also extremely talented-__so theres a lot that can {eose faopecteror Bop oeigling 1 constant stress, deadlines, work, and non-existent savings at the end of the month conflicts me as to whether or not the benefits outweigh the costs to my mental, physical, and financial health: I've said it before to a friend of mine. 8 but an ad agency really feels like a bootcamp that does give you one-of-a-kind experience and skills, but can also leave you broken and too unmotivated to ever step foot in marketing and advertising top again 29, Bachelor's Degree Male Sarawakian Bumiputera Role: Application Consultant for a UK company based in Malaysia 1year 2 months now: 1 Asked for MYRGSKIy; offered MYRZOkly: Increased to 72k/y last J November: AIl Malaysian staff were given starter package (laptop; keyboard, mouse, monitor and BT headset). also received an increase of leave, from 8 days last year to 16 days 1 this year: HR noticed on average everyone needed min 11 days of leave not including the public holidays. Medical benefits included too. Allowance to upgrade ergonomic setup 1 available at request: All currently working from home until cases are down: they They paid Job: Software engineer Industry: IT 1 Salary pre-tax: RM55OO per month Location: Kuala Lumpur Gender: Male Age: 27 Race: Chinese Qualification: Diploma (Mechanical) Completed, Bach Degree 1 (Dechsoieace) Congcinegd, Master Years of experience: 2.5 years 6months. Then | was offered a permenant job as a Graphic designer: So | gamble my future by asking RM2500 as my base 4 starting salary then we reached to an aggreement with RM2OOO per month which | think_OK .still not 1 bad: I just need to pay my Honda Ex-5 RM1SO room rental RM3OO PTPTN RM1OO and send some money to my old folks at 1 kampung: The rest, I joli the money with my girlfriends. Come on, just let Gen-Y have some fun will ya. At the end of the all of uS working to get da money: day, Wireless Telco Engineer; Telecommunication, RM4.3K basic + Allowance RM5OO Tun Razak, KL Male, 24, Chinese 2 years experience 1 One of the main players in Malaysia's telco vendor MNC (China) Telecommunication & IT Started off at RM3.8k as fresh grad, increment RM5OO -> RM4.3k after 2 Iy3m @malaysianpaygap 996 culture, Working 9-6/7pm is a norm here. Salary matching with expectation, however similar expectation from bosses on your performance We were often encouraged not to job hop because it'Il look bad on your resume. If your goal is money; it's not a bad thing to job as long as you have at least 1 year of experience in each company: 1 sagadat sincerhent} {jbiebeeis 2 bank in 2018. Commission scheme was cut as well: If it isn't because of the pandemic, | would have job again. 3 As for bank working culture, Im given some independence but people can really suck sometimes: Guess that's "work balance" hop My hop In 2020, was headhunted for a general management role at an early-stage SEA tech startup that had secured significant VC funding: Through effective negotiation, | 1 secured a package that >2x my salary; excl. bonuses & shares This taught me the importance of investing time and effort in preparing well for negotiations. 1 Over the next 2.5 years, 1 worked on developing my leadership skills and delivering impact through cross functional teams working on marketing, sales, data, Bl, product mgmt, and customer experience_  Next is about working culture, bosses will always emphasis that this 1 company is result oriented where all of your achievements must be quantifiable. Eg: you have im @malaysianpaygap Eg: you have improve xx% of efficiency, reduced xX amount of cost etc. However; if you able to achieve 2 what they want; there will definitely be compensation on your contribution: What jobs can you get if you major in economics? Graduated from UM. Now Supply chain analyst BA in econs but working as an Operations Specialist in Automotive Industry MALAYSiANPAVGAP Job "Graduate architect" Actual job project coordinator 31, KL 6 years experience Master in Architecture ] costpanyRM5ooo (previous 1 Current pay: RM3OOO (new company) Been assigned outstation for 6 months with half pay and begin years 2022 January and February dont have any pay: And very devastating: ~ Current work: Individual contributor; -3 from CEO ~ 1 Manages acoge in Qperatioress cegiorecial nego, and a lot of cross-dept team leading despite no immediate team Company is a highly focused business, doesn't stray far from very clear targets which makes them very resultldeliverable oriented (main 1 reason 87soa reoioecworker; half the company is remote globally 1 Am leading a team? No Does my current salary match with market salary? Maybe (since come from a non-CSISWEJIT background and was a IT trainer for a 1 EoGinisignai gainiegt oomaanyprior How to grrow in my field of work? Learn because you want not beca How to grrow in my field of work? Learn because you want not 1 beporfsenytes teedarisappor open source projects; help each other on GitHub, StackOverflow; mentoring or coaching your peers,  collaborative problem solving to, to, to; 1. 10% (From pokok) 2. P1 = RM5OO 3. P2 = RM1OOO 4.P3 = RM1SOO Te highee gleelalaenalowaecet Khecchoel is. 1 Mine is 10% but it used to be P2 SO now we earn less what we used to earn: Tbh I'm us pedalaman teachers are swamped, imagine having to drive 2 hours to a school that's 8 only accessible by a rough dirt road (only accessible by 4X4 vehicles) , up a steep hill with no phone reception, imagine doing that during the rain: If had a penny for everytime i encountered retieed-nocident experience /'d be 1 gaji OFATO ' ISSUE [ SUMMER 2019 Ler How t0 Set Boundaries During internshid? Recently; they asked me to do something that is a part of their KPI: | haven't started doing it yet because | don't know??? feel guilty about it because I'm doing someone else's work and no one will know about it. 1 tried talking about this to my boss and other senior colleagues but it seems like they don't see this as a problem because all see is we work together: But I'm so frustrated: | don't want to fight because again, I'm an intern: no longer feel excited to go to work because of this senior colleague: What should do? they My first job upon graduation was being a social media manager cum salesperson cum admin at a small insurance agent's office with a basic of RM18OO. Worked there for about 4 months before decided to look for a better offer: 1 Deciaeryto diake bevehatleogoznd transport + meal expenses cause right now Im full-time wfh hihi. Thought of working here for as long as given the chance to cause I'm just so happy with the environment, colleagues, caring bosses and having a work-life balance.  my I'm Job: Accounts Executive (<year exp) 3k bfore deduction 2.5after Industry: Advertising & Marketing (FMCG) Agency Age: 23 Agency recently went from Hybrid to fully in-office. Caused me a lot 1 of stress both work-wise and financially, as the morning commute kills me everyday and the long hours mean need to have breakfast; lunch, and dinner out of home from Monday to Friday: Before it was more 8 manageable as WFH meant that my mornings were less stress - inducing but now that have to account for travel, start my off with much less energy than before Pay: day DAY1 Taylor's Lakeside Campus, Subang an 20 x3 Panel Talk x2 Workshop ft. best role models learn and practice, who walk the talk livel Corporate Ladder 101 Networking Workshop Job Hopper: Who Loses? Negotiation I01 with live Career Switch: Legit Steps demo Masterclass Extra FUNNN x2 practical tips only all Getting the Most Out of Professional Clothes Swap: Your Paycheck ft Mr: Stingy Bring 5 to Take 5 Home Mr.Money Coffee, prizes to win, network Labor Law: How to Protect with companies Yourself Jaya day However think that it's necessary so that other junior lawyers know that being fairly compensated is not unheard of given that most lawyers work round the clock: 1 7 think It's really important for junior lawyers to discuss and even 1 question their bosses on their remuneration as we all know how much they bill clients Also don't away from discussing salary with your peers, it's the only way to know what the market rates arel shy Head of Corporate 8 Communications Financial sector Capital Market 8 39 years old, Malay; Male 1 KSioh lunpu ene 1 Gartent Dery:,18000 J Hmm what got me into this industry is definitely the passion and also wanting to learn more about digital space_ There are so many tricks and peopleolonocaoplatform thata lotof 1 By the way am still with the company: It's started easing out as soon as know my way around Aiarketiegreestrerbelygighnfluencer 1 Influencers like to delay deliverables given and sometimes, the content angles and work structure we give derere t  herchance they wont 1 But know what got myself into and definitely know what | signed up for: ~Im very proficient in BIM, I've been doing some part time BIM related freelancing to earn a little something extra: My boss knows that I'm good with BIM and wants me to certified sponsored by the company which think is a terrible idea: know that BIM knowledge is a 1 valuable asset and | dont see a possiblity that my boss increasing my salary if i get certified: want to get certified, just with my own money: There are a few reasons as to why accepted the job offer: applied during covid time when / was struggling to find a job after 1 grachuatifgfill my logbook requirements for my architectural part 3 exam really don't know what the salary range here in Sarawak is because nobody in the industry is transparent about it. get The company is a multinational fortune 500 within the FMCG industry and first joined as a fresh 5 graduate as a systems analyst progressing into project management roles of various areas within IT, and eventually landed < myself into a team lead/managerial role since (now lead a team of 5)_  8 Most of the salary jump are contributed by role promotions with 20-30% per jump whereas standard 2 increments are typical in linelslightly above inflation rate in Malaysia (2-4%) Benefits: 1) 3-months bonus with bonus from this company, managed to travel to a few countries oversea. 1 am thankful for that. 2) Good colleagues 3) Outstation allowance if go outstation outside KL/Selangor for 1 more than just a few days, for sure will get this allowance. never calculate how much per got, but the amount is usually satisfactory: 4) Company'$ car can use company's car to go outstation or sites around Selangor if motorbikes is quite out of reach. day Maintenance Planner Male 1 Malay 7 2 years in current position (12 years total experience) RM10,500 Degree 1 8 But_ sadly; i didn't get any offer letter 1 until now: And my salary still remained the same. But its ok, social media is my passion: love to see growth and 1 connect with the audience Moving on, after a few weeks with these new superiors, no longer had the creativity freedom and i am slowly 1 feeling . unhappy with my current situation. @malaysianpaygap One of it is because had to go 1 tbrpuolhsharsireple $happpnevalyeast post for instance. 8 Penetration Tester Job: Director; Threat Ops: Big4 Digitall Cyber team Location: Kuala Lumpur 1 Yrs of exp: How big is the company?: 3k +- firmwide in MY 8 Company type: Big 4JMNC Industry: Multi, but mainly FSIBanking and conglomerates for me 3 Increment history in this job: Per annum; but recently firmwide adjustment was given due to pay realignment @malaysianpaygap Do you think re a valuable asset to the company: 'but at what cost' 1 Are you happy in your job?: 50/50 (it's Iike a love/hate relationship) Side note: am happy the IG page is 8 backl 12yrs you'r Things inPipeline Publicly accessible dashboard d by wage dota collected Pyblic   get +6 use as benhmarlc More impactful % fun events Discird Str uctured k high Podcas FeJtring stuggles of Malaysians # 09 WIlh IS6k Ow of 9o4_here _ 4p we dofot_toke 0; tings_lightly 00 Powere  0n qalrt Podc website Setti( 'eoluneers ) (Supported Ioo What did you learn this year about work & life? Type something_ MALAVSIAN Pavgap Creative designer; 3.5k UiJUx Designer 6.5k Penang KL F33/M From a 6 employee local co to ~ 300 employee MNC. Currently perfect 1 work-life balance, 10-6 working hour: Sometimes i got chased off the office cause had creative blocks n non productive. NoW; whole team is remote working so flexi working hours. My boss is the prime example of a leader: Trusts the team;never 3 micromanaged: Collaborative rather than what-i-say-goes, praises us in public and corrects in private. 1 truly am grateful him and the co for providing me the space to grow in this 4 years: @malaysianpaygap for After 6 months got a from job agency to for IV in a company where have never ever heard before this. So |just go with it and try to nego my salary to RM3OOO. Surprisingly my HR offered me RM3OOO + RM35O (allowance) . Of course without thinking i grabbed the chance to develop my career and having a better salary And also permanent job: 1 Anyway; it's been 6 months I'm in the company: The best thing is I'm still wfh and | only go to the office once a month when my company is having an eogageryert aotiitfe batance ksoeryf 1 important: Sometimes finish my work at 9-1Opm to finish my target: But it depends on the difficulty of task: The more difficult the task, then you will finish your work late haha: Anyway, it is a good experience for me so far: Im looking forward to have more career development in this company call try Well; my relative is 30% right as retail job do require sales skill, but usually this is what the people see superficially: Honestly retail is not as easy as it sees especially when your are at leading position. First of all, the job itself requires efficiency as it is a fast pace business, so you need 1 to do everything very quickly to ensure the shop could operate. Secondly; you really need to have patience and being mentally strong to deal with people e.g. subordinates or customers. And this list goes on e.g: training skill as 8 re responsible to train and develop your subordinates, styling skill for product display and to provide advise to customers, planning and organising skills for manpower planning, task delegation  etc. you'1 There are also lots and lots of Malaysian doctors in the land down 1 under; especially in the where live- Perth; WA. There is a growing Malaysian community, and from what gather it feels less lonely and isolating as before. Im very grateful for the opportunity to work, especially in my field: Work life 1 balance here is great; work culture is also good; bullying, harassment and aggression is not tolerated here. 1 intereatoreabeectorsnfspecially from the NHS recently due to the poor working conditions and pay in the UK. That's all from me; hope you have a good day! @malaysianpaygap city "As a rideshare driver, 1 would take passengers to KLIA often: There would always be a wait for the next passenger. Why not use the time productively? While waiting for the next passenger; would park illegally to save Some money, open up the laptop and learn software development from online tutorials:' 8 long Other illustrators taught me the importance of understanding and protecting copyright of one's work ~in most book publishing projects, clients don t copyright, pay for usage rights. So you make the art once and get whenever others use it:. For instance: when you do a releesed in haodbaak youget a 1 primary fee for that usage, then fees for each time the book is released as a paperback or audiobook or limited edition. If the title is picked up by foreign publishers in different languages, pay you usage fees too. buy they paid they Hi yes used to work for a Malaysia 3 low cost airline for 2Y before applying for this Middle East airline. v To be fair; experience or non experience crews share a fair chance in Middle East airlines as do take freshie too. For the Middle East Airlines job 1 application, it used to be walk ~in with resume and the interview takes 3 days to complete: @malaysianpaygap This was in year 2014. just recently found out somehow it 1 has been changed to "invitation only" -2022. 1 they Job: Clinical Sales Executive, Medical Devices Orthopedics, 5.5k to 1Oklmonth (including comms) Location: Klang Valley 8 Age: FI27Y, 4 years experience Working with MNCs have its perks, the benefits are good high EPF, medical and other extra claims i.e 3 gym allowances: Working hours can range drastically, semi-flexible work in the sense that you may work til late at night by attending cases that last until 2am ] but perhaps other days you may only need to start around 10-11am, due to the nature of the job. However don't expect to be able to predict your schedule this industry is entirely ad-hoc. Lawyer; RMSk salary: KL Female, 29, Malay: 4 years of experience. After chambering i started my first job 1 in a mid sized firm with a salary of RM2,200. The environment was ok, friendly staffs and bearable workload but was a bit anxious with my lady v boss. A traditional type of boss_ always feels insecure whenever she ask about progress of cases: just dont like the feeling of being afraid to 1 someone. And i always think "when can i get rich if work like this" Then right after finished my probation period, tender a resignation letter: @malaysianpaygap As for my personal experience , too had fight for a review in the salary package within our 1 company: Been the worst ] ever; since that senior manager is gaslighting my issue by saying some rhetorical answers such as 2 to be thankful (bersyukur) , need to be do financial management, need to do some givings (sedekah) , and to get married (so it can grow your wealthlrezeki) in 1 some way: day Medical Sales Representative (Device line) , 24, Female, Chinese, 8 Ist Job (graduated since Aug 2022) RM7333 on avg for the Ist 3 months (Basic + Allowance + Incentives) No cap on incentives, the more you sell the more you earn: 8 Benefits: all meals with docs are claimable (budget is given) , flexible working hours (could be starting 8am in the morning & end around midnight; or in just 3 hrs of working 1 you the sales, all depends on how you plan your schedule and who you plan to meet). wifi, phone bills, petrol all are claimable too. get there's issue on the android app_ main responsibility is to help them fix bugs, troubleshoots urgent issues and implement new feature request from client; if any urgent issues comes up when im on leave, would be forced to 1 help them resolve the issue even on my leave day since im the only front end dev for the team: @malaysianpaygap Overall, my experience for working with the company is quite good, 8 because they have pretty good work- life balance, and also surrounded by fun and knowledgable colleagues: My Within SAP Academy for Presales program Crystal Group Associate Program Mastercard Launcher Shopee Global Leaders Program Shell Graduate Programme JD.com RM6-12k Safety & Health Officer 26 1 Salaerier16foears Working area Kemaman Construction industry Education Diploma in OSH Work 6 days, 1 off 1 Stecigerang RM21OO : Safety Promoter 2. Senawang RM26OO : Safety Executive 3. Telok Kalong RM4OOO : Safety 1 Sugeretyoand Health Officer =  RM615O Kemaman day This is my first job after graduation. The company is a MNC and the size is s00+ employee: I'm holding a few portfolios of leading pharmaceutical companies; hotels, logistics and other industries. Our department needs to 1 Operatoontaot the [esalenarod programme For my part, need to provide all sort of technical supports including reporting, documentations, inspections, pest-related reviews and @malaysianpaygap improvements: Photographer/Videographer Salary Currently 3-8k a month Location Sarawak Sneg, %cogtacvnsy 7 Inspection Industry: Male, 32 Started off as a marine surveyor after my diploma, Got the job because the company needed workers and was at the right spot at the right time. Spent about a year learning about the industry until was confident enough to apply for another company: Once moved to my new company: worked certificates ahatgoagraygeificonty 7 increased my salary and skills. During this time , discovered my passion which was photography: took a lot of street photography type photos and that led me to wedding photography: Arts, NEEd YOUR Hi admin: need some advice_ just an offer that will start in December and I'm currently pregnant: There will be 6 month probation period, so calculated my probation will end in delivery date was due in April. My question is, can the company terminate my job during my confinement period since I'm still in probation? Fyi, haven't tell the company that Im pregnant since haven't sign any agreement or job offer: FRI 21:19 also wanted to know when is the best time that should tell hr that I'm pregnant since most people said my tummy isn't really showing Advice ,, got May: My yet So technically you have rm1740 to survive during covid days Most hospitality fresh grad came for interviews has indirectly accept low R pay salary to survive Most luxury hotel offer the lowest salary in range in the position to reduce operating cost ( | know cause | am the hr :") however they do have the choice to readjust after the confirmation as the hotel is earning money before covid Nonathelss_ working in hotel doesn't 1 matter luxury brand or international brand consider yourself working with a sdn bhd as most of them are franchises manage by local owner not the brand itself: Group Finance Manager & Special Officer to MD Main industry is plantation 30 years old Chinese female Rieagooxperience 1 find Malaysians tend to shy away 1 from asking for the price that they really want: For me, with every job that I've changed, it is always a {doroacceptanything less and 1 my foot down when | negotiate with potential employers. And usually get what want: But of course, your work has to show for it. It's all depend how you articulate yourself: put Let me tell you that behind those success, there are stories of the numbers of jobs, training and soul searching they took to reach 8 where are today: You all should feel excited that there are opportunities out there. Just 8 8 because a few people are successful, it will not decrease your chances of success. 08 Also, you have to be realistic with yourselves: Yes, IT and data science are now incredibly sexy: So was STEM back then: That's why your parents asked you to go Cs into STEM because it was the sexy 'IT and data science' job in their time_ they Everything is well with the job except for the fact that it's a 12 hours job. The company didn't fail to pay US on time despite not being able to operate during certain phase of MCO. Of course having been 4+ years on this job Im hopeful for career growth/ pegsetiohe-Gonewany cheseto 1 only promote foreign workers while other remain in the same position: This seems unfair because my supervisor is illiterate SO have to deal with all the tasks associated with book keeping data entry & related stuff at half half his wage. MALAYSIAN REALiTY Working CheCk (n SiNGADORE I'ma lawyer in my 30s from KL who has only recently relocated to SG (2022). In Malaysia, my previous monthly salary was around RMi2,000,and now am earning approximately the same in SGD. used Linkedln to land a position at the law firm where am now working: 2) Everyone is replaceable but if it is difficult for the company to find a replacement for you, you will worth more. That is basically the reason I'm able to triple my salary: If you are easily replaceable, better find a way to make yourself valuable 3) Know your valuel Even though 1 you have the same qualification, the gap for fresh grads salary in my company can be as much as RM6OO depending on your negotiation skill Probably race can be a factor but based on observation, Malay candidates like tompaoewe ChiestedValay ends 0 to have 'it is okay' attitude as long as fix and stable income which is why some companies will abuse it. IMO, the comfort zone is actually the root cause of underpaid: my put they get treasure my work life balance more than some rank in the corporate 0 world now: | give my bare minimum which is just enough to the job done well and on time aka quiet quitting: Got money to food, pay bills and save for a rainy is enough for me: 1 Do think I'm a valuable asset? do: The work do is important and to see so much of what's going on in the company: The complexity of the financials boggles my mind sometimes. 6 get buy day Yes, get You will miss out a lot of things with the people and environment that you are familiar with, and sometimes at night, these thoughts hurts a lot, especially when |'m having a hard time at work. For me, family is always the first. Nowadays, only go home for a short while everytime and it feels like /'m more of a guest at home: As time it feels like everywhere and nowhere is possei dorejobs _ ahafaatyibdoimgurk hehek 1 SO can earn more in the same amount of time working compared to others. Anyways as an interpreterl translator a lot of discipline is needed, just like the previous post's freelance transcription project manager who earns 50k a month; when was 9 working as a freelance translator there were many days which worked till 3am when had to wake up the next at 7am, or sometimes would go whole night without sleep just to finish my work: After all, the more work you the more you earn: 1 day do,- Job: Social Media Manager & 1 Cocatioitek  Industry: F&B 29 year old Chinese female L LLB (Hons) 9 1/2 months experience 1 Company Size: SME Salary: RM5OO increment within 6 months of joining this company at a cb starting pay of RM25OO pre deduction: 8 Hi MPG , 1 want to share about my previous job as know the information in this industry is relatively limited: Ppl always say 1 bio-related industry has a very Iow- pay: It's actually true, so please consider well before studying the course_ would advise the current student from this background to at least get a master before you enter the job 1 market (if you want to work in R&D)_ As a degree graduate, find that it's harder for me to get opportunities compared to master graduate. My advice is that it's important to know your worth and not be afraid to 0 negotiate and ask for a revision of your current salary: Learn how to negotiate and improve your communication and soft skills. If many people can do the tasks, the pay will not be that high; and it will be easy to find replacements. However; if only a 1 few people can do it, the pay will be high, and some companies will be willing to offer a good package to attract these talented individuals. 8 @malaysianpaygap @malaysianpaygap 1 wrasvgivegrapetintioroday Oppoerenistione advice would give, would say to never be afraid of taking chances: randomly applied to the job roles never thought I would get. Sometimes, we don't realize we were the ones shutting our own doors of opportunity with self doubt; negative thinking and views. 1 used to miss out On sO 1 afzair onoorthoitgest thoutght juaitchecdeserveas cynic NEED YOUR 1 just feel frustrated that don't know how to handle this. I'm not asking for high pay or bonus, just rest days and pay-equivalent working hours 1 hope someone can help advice me on this. 1 really don't know how security guards working life are and would like to be educated. At the same time, want to know how can | tackle this situation as well Advice_,, No drama or dumb rules; but a heavy emphasis on hygiene and customer service which should come naturally when your employees are allowed to be mentally healthy: @malaysianpaygap The basic is rm16O0 along with 4 1 hours OT, so make 2.3-5k per month: It's comfortable enough, but don't plan on staying as world is evolving and need to require as much as new skills as can. Everything is shifting right now and want to capitalize as much as can on current climate: Hello MPG! I've not seen much about scientist roles and would like 1 to share a lil bit about my current role to those who are looking into R&D related jobs. Job/Salary pre-tax: Research Scientist/ CNY 19k(approx. MYR 12k) Location: Shanghai, PRC Genderlagelrace: FI31/Chinese 1 Malficaionlyrs of experiences: "At 19, Ilost my mum; and | didn't know what | want to do anymore in my life. | wanted to study medicine for my mum; but now she's no longer here: relative in the UK invited me to study in London But my family isn't rich: Back then, my sister alone had to carried the responsibility to put food on the table for the 4 of us, and she was already working long hours to pay off debts incurred from failed family business; mortgage, and the hefty medical bills from my mum and education fees for US: Out of curiosity; I still went and applied, and accepted for Actuarial Science degrees in 5 UK unis Im convinced if | can scholarship from Sunway before, So | can do it again:" My got get Last year; made a crazy decision to resign my job in legal industry 1 and went on full commission job! Im happier and healthier now 1 advice for younger generation_ 8 if you're stuck with low salary job toxic environment, start a side hustle in sales learn new skills and start to monetise the skills! Mental health should be our 1 priority My Physiotherapist, Healthcare (Private Hospital) 25 Malay Female Fresh Grad Kuantan Pahang 1 Bachelor Degree in Physiotherapy | Current salary : RM1850 No exact increment % every year but last year everyone rm6z 1 think healthcare industry is so shitty: got VOICES FROM MPG The EMPLOYERS STORIES 8h "The first 2-3 years of any SME is at negative: Unfortunately, those who joined at the beginning don't stick around long enough to share in our success (we are not blaming them for this). In the end, those who joined later reap the benefits. s Junior Journalist Media Industry 26 Malay Female 9 months (graduated on 2020) Bachelor in Communication RM 2500 exclude allowances 1 enougreskgrprobletink thhen it 1 comes to do the contents for social media. | need to use my own money first later claim: But i need to wait for a long long long time to get my claim: To do the contents need a lot of money so i feel burdening sometimes when i could not get my claim on time: Now have done 2 contracts as a second engineer in another company and going on to my 3rd contract here. Despite taking a nearly 50% pay cut, find it comfortable so far working here. Here's the with my line of work, it's a eat world out 1 here: You have to compete as salaries varies from company to company and ship to ship. People with as much experience as am, are earning 30 to 40k a month. But that's them: There is no standardized salaries for 1 Malaysians in this industry: You take it or leave it_ If there'S a slot, you in. You It's a freelance job. You're not paid when you're on leave_ thing dog dog get get paid. WEHAVE SQ MUCH MORE MPG SUMMIT? ! TO SERVE wage transparency ! into our policy" more work to to empathy get surface issues relating well-being life inspire immediate more self-able solution more better evoke find wage and compassion long-term amongst solution work influence peers culture thank you for being of the movement that advocates for better work lifel part We then go home after completing our contract to enjoy our leave till we're called to rejoin. Usually 2-3 months leave. But due to changes in management; my company reduced crew and had to look for other opportunities. then ventured into the world of offshore support vessels with a contract of 60 days  Joined as a 3rd engineer with a RM6oOO/month salary constacontcacRMaSRMG& cortoact 1 was 9.5K. Then decided to upgrade my license or certificate of competency to become a second engineer: Attended a course in a reputable Maritime academy in Malaysia for 6 months and sat for my oral examination to qualify saee coneponyd vengi engineer: a eelaroioed the 1 RM14.Sk. worked 2 contracts with that salary: Then jumped to another company with RMI8k per month salary: Did 2 contracts there, and things were going bad to worst with regards to salary payments being delayed: So | had to look for other opportunities again. Marine Safety Officer (yb holder)_ 25/malaylmale. Working for almost 6 years with diploma certificate. It took me 1 1 year and half to start getting better salary: Working location: malaysian water My old salary: 1.2-2k. Current: 7.5k-14k It is kinda hard for me to get here. 1 U gotta make lots of connection and friends and show them how good u are with your job. Your CGPA do not even matter but the way U work, solve problems, knowledge are the golden for u to go for o&g. If u have degree in 1 safety field or nebosh, U can paid 15k-20k per month and U can go working at international waters. key get AMA with AN ILLUSTRATOR Illustrator; self-employed in the arts and publishing industries Early 30s/ CI F Six years' experience; | work remotely: My academic background is unrelated to illustration, but it tretedloug . Sbree gahfor laed 1 various jobs had previously: Monthly income fluctuates based on projects on average RMSk-6k from illustrating: The job is worthwhile as it pays good money for a part-time job. It also gives us extra experience, allowing us to be more prepared for the clinical setting, and improves our communication skills with patients. 1 Career growth is only present if the caregiver pursues tertiary education in related field (nursing, allied health): Full-time caregivers receive little to no growth at our location, nonetheless their total pay is quite good for them as can receive 4 many jobs as a full-timer: For a student nurse, this work is valuable experience and employers actively seek to employ us even 1 years before we graduate: If anybody is looking for a fun active profession that confirms you a stable job, nursing is the way to go. they VP in a global bank; front office treasury and trade solution (tts) 34 Chinese Male KL Total career experience = 12 years, Bachelor of Computing Salary = MYR 23,000 (including 3 allowance, excluding bonus) Decent work life balance. Some ] colleagues leave sharp at 6 everyday (probably get paid less). Corporate side of banking earns more than retail banking IB earns goicg thooegh bouitiplBanking is 1 transformation still lots of opportunities in this space (especially on data and digital) , and learning new things everyday: Global bank provides an avenue to work with colleagues across the globe and expand your network. Best way to start a career in banking? Start from management associate programs. Consulting experience helps too. Cheers "Im 29,and Im a Project Manager in MetalFacebook It took me 4+ years of disciplined effort to find my first overseas full time job; and another 5+ years to realised what | enjoy doing; and then mustered the courage to actually pursue for it: Im glad to say |ve finally found my calmness now in my current job: Ifyou think I got to where | am now because of early privilege; please let go of your prejudice for a moment:" My advice to fellow 18-25 old working day jobs like me would be this working hard IS working smart: You can carry loads all day and that still isn't going to be hard work, because it's not smart. Go online, there are 1 infinite amount of things you can with ZERO capital. Get started. We can't live like our parents did, time has evolved and in years from now day jobs may not even be a thing: So fight your heart and feed your brain: @malaysianpaygap try Engineering Consultant Age 27, Male 4 years Selangor; Klang Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering Gliovreancealaetc5kt; includes epf, 1 2 Malaysia's construction industry is a tough and toxic place to be: It's 0 very competitive, and lots of shady businesses going on (mainly corruption and relational benefits); moreover; the responsibility an engineer has is not reflected in the pay: I'm 1 grateful for this job profession: However; don't believe it can be a sustainable lifelong career: Would love to hear from other consultants too, in terms of pay, 3 work life balance, career growth, etc. Music teacher 23 6 years Kl Diploma Trinity FTCL 1 before pandemic 9-10K not stable) 1 Now 7-8K Working from Monday until Saturday 8-1Opm, Sunday half Most of my students are private: 1 Earning a high pay job but unstable, hate the feeling parents forgotten to pay the fees and claim did_ day: they they Job: Sales Account Manager 1 prodstcys)FMCG (not typical FMCG Salary pre-tax: RM 7300 Gender: Male Age: 29 @malaysianpaygap Race: Indian 1 Company size: 50-75 employees Qualification: Diploma Years of exp: 10 years Official hours: 9-6 mon-fri Unofficial hours: dealing with international clients and local also 3 sales line so whenever customers text or calls I'm ready: Graduate "aka Part 2" Architect 30, Male, Chinese UK Master's Degree Yearerbonlasy e RMS+k with small 1 Work location Mid size architectural consultancy firm in PJ The role of the architect extends beyond just designing which is the main skill in which we spend 6 years of architecture school honing: Wozkisg iot ofoirseltaert oractiairing 1 meetings, project management; contract administration, liaising with local authorities, solving technical problems and coordination etc etc 1 However; Im still trying to adjust to payment schedule: Since I'm used to just getting my pay on a fixed date every month; having to come up with the invoice and then wait for the payment to come in is a really different experience for me. 1 average about $7k/ month and the invoice payment will usually come about a week or two after sending in the invoice: But god hate the 1 anxiousness @malaysianpaygap of waiting for it My main responsibility is to hack company assets. If you watch the "Mr: Robot" series, my tasks are pretty 0 siobiae phaokerg converctingbeate; phishing attacks on internal staff; and breaking into unauthorized premises: The interesting part is that this kind of job really exists, and companies allow me to use my skills to find 1 weaknesses and hack their systems so that they can improve their cybersecurity capabilities. At the same time, it helps spread 8 cybersecurity awareness among staff: @malaysianpaygap Research in academic and industry have different objectives. Academic encourage you to ask why; but industry focus more on hoW to solve the problem: If you fail in some 1 experiment; it's more important to quickly modify your experiment conditions and get the result than spending your time to track down why fail: Besides, it's more important to consider whether the research you are doing can generate more 1 income to the company: If the research can bring a very breakthrough; but the market are too small, then it's a regret that you have to give it up. you great Iguess being away from home to a different country at a age meaning you would never evenge in the life of your important's one for a period of time. Everytime I go home; there is always changes: parents looking older each time | go home, my siblings graduating without me celebrating with them, my home being renovated, friends moving on and doing what you have always been doing together without you. long My Ive gotten some shade for job hopping but to each their own; right? can attest that it's the 1 probably fastest way to increase salary: The drawback comes when you do a lateral jump from one company to another; you won't the chance to promoted: It takes some time to build rapport in a new company sO re back in line for a promotion (unless you're super 1 outstanding lah which I'm not): This is something I've realised recently upon reflecting on my past work experience: Maybe wasn't aggressive enough back then to look for a higher position: 6 your get get you' Asset Management Specialist, GLiC RMgsoale Malay 4 months annual 0 bonus Degree in Real Estate Mgmt & MBA from local uni 9 More than 10 years experience in 1 the industry; with starting salary of rm2.3k 0; Moved on to local big bank for 5 years and Global brands for 3 yrs after that advise to the fresh grads, anyapporturgkeofaecok out for 1 progress. Dont stay in a job just bcos it's comfortable. Life begins at the end of your comfort zone My grew up among people who told me that without a degree you cannot get a good job, which somehow agreed reGuiresraoGegree (everalayoia are 1 stupid but with a degree you somehow will land onto a job eventually: But for those people who couldn't have the opportunity to continue studying, you all can know that sometimes a degree isn't everything, and there are many 9 employers out there who value the skills that you have, and hOw can yoUu benefit the company; so do not give up on yourself; and learn some extra skills so more opportunities will land on you: ANY skills can have the ahaorg &9 baugaoe the  @ghdnlaset 1 and know how to use your skills well: hope bring 100 PpI 13.05.2023 UP Showed Initially; was SO desperate to a job after 6 months haunting for it and submitted hundreds of application: A lot of time will not receive any response, or simply 8 'overqualified'. That's why accepted the technician role and climb the ladder as fast as can: | have now tripled my salary after 4 years of working: Here are some tips would like to give to others, 1) If you are desperate, just accept 1 whatever you have for now: Don't be picky and learn as much as possible to climb the ladder: get 2 Hi MPG , 8 Job: Human Resource Exec Age,Race Gender 29 Malay Male Education: Bachelor in Tesl Experience 3 years Salary 4k during probation Current location Selangor 1 Prvious Salary 2.5k (allowance 500 Previous location Same place 1 start off my career as an hr assistantl despatch; began to gave up on my field because waiting for such job offer was quite challenging. | lay low 1 and follow instructions given being bullied through out the first 6 months of my career but i pull myself together: But; is it something you want to do? |am an experienced scientist with 5 years experience in R&D, 8 with publication and a Master's degree, but am earning under RM4k. Yeah, deserve more but 8 8 money is not my sole objective. If it is, | would jump ship or enter data science. But recognise that / am in a very niche field. My superiors are all expats because 08 Malaysia does not have talents in vaccine development/ manufacturing: told myself that will invest my time here because see opportunity in the form of Cs being one of the Malaysians who will replace the expats For my female and non-cis male 8 copywriters: don t be afraid to ask for a high salary: | used to be paiseh to ask for more than Ik extra when jump jobs. but then / found out an ex-male colleague 1 asks for 40-50% extra of his current salary: Worst case imposrer tyedrege price Screw 1 PS: curious how many % more salary other sr copywriters ask for when jumping jobs Our primary role in this industry is to solve the pest issues. This requires our fundamental understanding of the biology of the pests and suitable treatments to control them: In urban and suburban areas, pests we often 1 sosateitoeettyockrilaachech etc rodents, However; settings vary from place to place and there is no gold standard to the solutions. Trying errors to find the root cause is what we commonly practise. @malaysianpaygap SToRIES 0F CAREER SUCCESSTUL SwtiCH Atter 30 From working as anything to 1 UIJux Forgetting about job changing among the industry as receiving feedback from manager with 10 years 3 experience still rm4400 hospitality industry price :") The pros side working in a hotel for middle nor entry level ? Free staff meal and some complements stays The cons ? Long working hours heavy work load and under-par industry pay despite which nowaeteepingoor Koanceth fnb 1 Just a sharing from a hr person in the hospitality industry Hope the word spread to other haha So A think VOu Deoe2vE VO Hi MPG , wanna share a story of what i encountered today: Today is a friday; took a off to settle some personal stuff and i came into the cafe to chill after settling my stuff: Not gonna say which cafe but it's a local chain. All i see is 1 worker manning the register; making the drinks and on the side, 5-6 abang riders are waiting for their orders. day Increment history: 3500MYR (fresh grad) -> 38OOMYR ~> 440OMYR -> 6O0OMYR Avg work hour: 6-9 hours a (flexible, can sign off early if no more task) , OT frequency is about 2-3 days 1 in 3-4 months time as need to rush the deadlines: @malaysianpaygap For my current company, worked alone as the team's iOS developer 8 (front-end) with 2 backend engineer; and as well work a little bit on android side of things for them if there's issue on the android app. day My Validation Engineer Tech/Electronics MNC Micyeas; Chinese; Female 1 Penang Start work after earn MSc while working RMs6oo/month before any deductions pnetuaigoobenerits (ockerlyarad 1 given in USD BEng, Our people are overworked and underpaid in general: had this 1 chance to sit in a forum few years back when a young chap is asking J some member of I persatuan II majikan regarding minimum 2 salary,; whether the association could collectively pushed for better wages. But to my disbelief; the young chap was being ridiculed in front of others: 1 tax free salary 3 housing allowance or accommodation provided /utilities bills v covered/ transportation to work is provided/ free uniform laundry Insight: it is a fun job to explore the trorlcdifererchatrieg teet Deople 1 undeniable super tiring job as your working timing is upside down almost all the time. @malaysianpaygap Salary is higher than working for our national airlines or low cost airlines: Apply the job if you are independent 1 person & love adventures! There are so much more to see in this worldl 1 For other types of illustration, one-time fees plus royalties or another form of profit-sharing might be typical: Not to mention other income streams like patron pledges, merchandise and prints, private commissions, live events, visual documentation, etc_there are lots of possibilities. There isn't a conventional career "ladder" to climb as an illustrator; so your ) career is really what you decide to {ibekreting: 1 find that very 1 Generally; local publishing doesn't pay illustrators well, even by MYR standards_that's not a secret. The way forward isn't everyone getting overseas work; it's improving infrastructures here sO that working conditions and wages can be raised across the board: "By the 3rd month, was ready to look for clients, and started trawling remote job boards for opportunities: found my initial clients through remote job boards and freelancer sites: Once I've built up the necessary foundation, found more success via networking and direct outreach to my target market in the US" am happy with my current company due to its people centric culture: my direct bosses are understanding, supportive and always taking staff's wellbeing into account, our opinions and concerns are well heard with implementation: 1 Even during MCO when retail are banned to operate, was in full basic despite having no sales income. Experience and skills are very much 8 appreciated in my company: company is willing to promote and increment as long as you're contributing in your job and able to deliver bosses expectations: paid My 0n Discird Str uchured k high Icast FeJhtring stiggies of Malaysians T Wi6 I5 seHting ow ofyou here, 4p we dodot_toke (Sups 4' things_lightly Integrity laze jf we_tokeit, Ad sponsdrs should we are We approached take_it ( leave Monehzing i? Yow/trast Q iP wC_olont ateahon? take it how how t0 For CanMPb woring 90 + gow2 Perhaps 98tom dowarion Accept ads ~communi e bit have 3 ta hsparent But_whil (rom Spening to the public are we takn9 but too Far too much savings 9 & Jds ? Pdd qatriaa pod website 6k "tdluntters ) Ported Ioo veward nard Our team fy? not Ydar Recruitment Consultant 24F 1.5 years KL Bachelor of Psychology RM3,000 + commissions (can go up to 2000 if perform well) 1 think during the pandemic period, the recruitment industry J has been striving because a lot of people are looking for jobs, but we have no work life balance. have to respond to clients on weekends, even if I'm on leave, | need to reply emails. So wherever 1 go, including vacations, must bring my laptop with me. It is a sales job, so companies will be heavily focused on KPI and sales target, this could be very stressful for some people. But of course, it 3 can be satisfying when yoU sales. get 8 Until . 4 months ag0, Company X did a reorganisation within the whole company: Where the social media 1 departoveed ingthsSignedto a new supervisor; and added a few superiors 1 into this unit who had no interest and no experience in social media including my own new supervisor: Keep in mind, i am working with people aged 40+ who think social 1 media is an easy job and took it very lightly: @malaysianpaygap Also, in the new official organisation chart, was no longer a trainee, but an 1 basedtior the chars Rghprohaed to 8 my previous supervisor She helped me to earn that position: 6 Salary history (approximate per annum pre tax) 2013: ~sok (entry level) 8 2016: ~130k (senior)  2018: ~180k (team leader) 8 2020: ~230k (manager) 2022: ~300k (head) 2 Iam not that valuable asset to the company because believe my colleagues can do better than me. But, it seems struggle for me at first to cope with everyday tasks But slowly; learned my to accomplish the assigned task: My tasks included, but not limited to 1 1) Attend site visits 2) Monitor the drilling teams 3) Manage work activities of SI teams 4) Prepare the reports 5) Participated in laboratory testing and helped senior with ISO documentation  way But, Have to handle both case management and program development and implementation. Highly stressful and emotionally burdening: Needs to oversee welfare's of 30+ families. 3 Constantly at risk during 0pandemic  Claims to beyno 3 promotion: And told to be grateful for the increment and current salary: Constantly reminded to do the job in good faith: Averworkederpaid and 1 Feeling awful to be a "whistleblower" but the salary and working hours of a social worker needs to be advocated. It is a remote role and | could work anywhere want basically 1 But although the trauma is real like the start up culture: think being in the industry One must have thick skin; the ability to andabreboeave @ipachythed fhet 1 ability to communicate is extremely important as well: And am planning to stay for a long torkloadewnas double}tFipleEo the 1 NEEd YOUR Hi Admin: On a side note Ialso wanna ask if it's our obligation to inform employer when you're OKU (mentally):  have been hiding the fact that I'm OKU to employer (unless employment form asked) so | don't have less advantage getting a job with standard pay: Most of the OKU jobs are underpay and hardly can sustain a living independently: PIS: | didn't get JKM allowance_ It wouldn't be helping much with our cost of living also. Advice_ city also notice they value their 1 employees and approach them as human first, employees later: 1 Meaning if it's clear that need mental health time off; it's granted as medical leave_ And then they will arrange the workload: 1 3 they Malasipn 6 MANITESTO LIKEITORNOT, OUR GOLDEN YEARS INTERSECT WITH WORK YEARS. FIND PRIDE IN WHATWE DO, SO LIFE IS FULFILLED. DO OUR BEST, AND DOIT OFTEN: EVERYONE IS SUFFERING PRIVATELY, DONT INDULGE IN GOSSIP. SOME OPPORTUNITIES ONLY COME ONCE, SEIZE THEM BEFORE YOUR DOUBT. TRUST THE PROCESS. RESPECT DIFFERENCES. HAVE GRACE IN BAD TIMES. KNOW YOUR WORTH BUT BE REALISTIC. INSPIRE YOURSELF. HELPING OTHERS WON'TROB YOU OF YOUR CHANCES, HELP OFTEN: TOGETHER, WE RISE: Fast forward 2022, tripled my income within 2 years during covid. I've never met most of my online clients in real life. All of them was either through Instagram and Referral: | still coach face to face but only a handful of individuals. A lot of people told me "You can't make a career out of coaching 1 because people don't look highly of your profession:" to differ: It's POST COVID and people are more health conscious than ever 3 My ULTIMATE advice as a coach? Hire a mentor if you can afford to. Get someone who's done WHAT you wanna do in terms of your OFFER: It becomes 1Ox easier when you learn from someone who's already done it: beg My main responsibilities include managing and growing a portfolio of clients via calls & emails. Handling 1 Aetiveliemoloadis9.pa Glaquerieis and providing feedback to customers in a timely manner: Let's not forget about the facilities. At the very least we are begging to get better facilities: We don't have proper internet connection to find materials for Wnakidse haveavwoutatkadueheith 1 least of our troubles. Concrete walls? None, air conditioning? J None, proper utilities for my kids to use? Zero. We teachers would pitch in to buy stuff for our kids 0 even food, clothing and even medicine sometimes. The higher ups expects us to 8 perform well but doesn't provide the proper help we need, makes us feel like we're the backend of the industry: All we want is our kids to experience school the same as how kids experience eqislityancaeiquityust have 1 city then moved on to join a late-stage tech startup essentially >1Ox larger with a global footprint; in a strategy role to drive business growth: The transition resulted in a ~5o% raise. This taught me to believe that self- 1 made luck is born from being able to seize/capitalise on sudden/ unexpected/fleeting opportunities through preparedness & dedication: I"'ve come to realise that success is rooted in setting ambitious goals 1 decerrrsatiorthey perbc My personal journey embodies the importance of embracing challenges; exploring diverse industries, and continuously seeking growth & learning in a dynamic business landscape_ Art Director at Information Services company (MNC) 33/MalaylMale 10 years experience Fully Remote Bachelor Degree Current Salary: RM85O0 4 Bonus: RM3-Sk Stocks Awarded: USD2500 2 really like working here. It's my 6th years working in the same Yeargawil willuicp toahercompany 1 because no point for me to be loyal if don't get pay well: I jump / get more money; gained new skills. In 10 years, only changed company twice. Currently; this is my third employer: | started working back in 2011 as an intern at a small optical retail shop in PJ with RM3OO per month for What jobs can you if you major in economics? just graduated two months ago with a Bachelor degree in International economics and trade, and now m working in a foreign bank as product manager under contract (for the Ist year) and just done my first week I'm a Economics grad and im now working as Data Analyst! MALAYSiANPAVGAP get Overall this is a very great starting point for fresh grads, don't expect to have typical 9-5 working hours daily 1 as workload will constantly be there for each position. Embrace it as a learning curve and you will find success in this company: There will be quarterly performance review to determine your bonus (20%-30% of monthly salary) , which is distributed 2 monthly following your performance grading: @malaysianpaygap Consultant Banking 34/FIC 11 years of experience ~Kuala Lumpur RM7,800 per month + commission 1 (average RM2-3k monthly) 1 MBA holder The only way to my current salary was through series of job 3 hopping: It's a norm in my industry: If hadn't job "Il be stuck at RM4-Sk salary range get hop, Company size: 400+ (Just in Malaysia) Company type: MNC Industry: Green energy 1 Increment history in this job: NA (Just started) Average working hours: 40 hours per week Do you think re a valuable asset to the company? Hell yes! to utilize my mechanical engineering knowledge and my passion in software and data 1 scieecou happy in yourjob? Yesl Could be happier if pre-tax touches 6k per month you'1 get ~ Ima remote worker; half the company is remote globally 1 long nexble cetiheurs and location &s ~ Low perk (no team outings, no physical camaraderie) but in exchange get flexibility; but did nego a CO- working space membership into my package @malaysianpaygap Had to work hard and focus on 1 boildigerust mfhirgy basmanafter that it's smooth sailing 1 8 The benefits are okay: RM9O meal allowance, EPF; socso, insurance, 24 days leave a year; free movie and concert tickets, etc. Cafeteria food a bit pricey but good Ia like my job, and the people work 1 with: It's just the pay does not really motivate me to be proactive and do better sometimes [ just do what's enough and go home: Other than the salary, everything else in this company is pretty okay: 8 MALAYSIAN CULT X PAYGAP CREATNN IG LIVE 8 6 1 D #SpillTheC featuring Prestine Davekhaw, Creator & Founder of MalaysianPAYGAP 30 JANUARY 2023 1OPM MYT Accountant; commercial company; RM 6.5K Female, 32 ACCA chartered accountant, 6 years audit experience in big 4 and 4 years commercial experience 1 revaere tcouregulaectocktakerk, do financial reports and monthly reporting on a timely basis and tedious deadline. Working under subsidiary of listed company: Borneo T0 JB What's the title of this job? And company size New Messages Hi admin, it's Front Office Assistant: Company size > 100 employees, a (removed for protection) under one management group: What's your academic background? Bachelor's Degree in Psychology (Industrial and Organizational) , now working out of my field  REAL BADASS WOMANIN TECH: FATIN FATIHAH a in sia sia, Truly svision monc? to" on talent in our the Map: Microsoft global _ My advice? Manage your own expectations when deciding to enter an advertisinglagency setting: Constant deadlines, over - performance, burnout; stress, and 0 workllife balance are a norm (sometimes even glorified) which if knew about firsthand; would probably deter me from joining  But what comes with it is a good opportunity to learn (especially as a fresh grad) and lots of exposure 1 1 to various industries depending on the agency's clientele: Also is a good starting point for my career in the long-run as many companies now look for people with agency experience: Sometimes you may end up 8 specialising in a specific industry without realising depending on how much U engross yourself in the work. In the <1 year of working here i feel like i've managed to learn and grow more than in any other job i've held previously (held 2 internships and a contract position both in marketing) . But From my observation, if we want to strive in music, we'd need to ourselves out there. Market ourselves, videos of us performing on IG/ social media, then people 1 will start recommending to others. For teaching; you may join some J FB group about music teachers in Malaysia to get jobs. Word of mouth is still quite prevalent to get in-house private teaching: If could give an advice to my 1 younger self; who is hesitating whether music will be a good fit, I'd say go for it: | couldn't imagine if |'m doing any other field now: put Am here hoping to inspire people to take action if they feel stuck at their current job. Take more calculated risks, and seek more atypical paths: Confucius said, II 'We have two lives, and the second begins when we realize we only have one.' 1 1 started my career as employee #30 (4k salary) at a fast-growing international O&G co. Got incredibly lucky to work directly under MDI founder; and said yes to every opp over the next 6 years as company 1 1Ox in size. Ended up learning how the business was run from engineering; OpS, corp dev; marketing; to strategy & planning: This taught me to be always curious and not let my education define my career choices_  coordinator; attend the testing or inspection with the customer and officer; handling for audit: Happy with my job because of good 8 collegue but not with the salary: ] believe my current salary is actually a START UP salary for 1 most of the company: Or may be less than that: I've tried for job bppoigrtyt yeit Paaerorgeteasince 1 I've been struggling to survive with that kind of salary in town yet: Content Moderator; IT 26, Malay; Female 1year 10 months Kuala Lumpur Bachelors degree Average salary: 3.5k including allowances Personally; think this line of work 1 is great as a first job. The company gave a lot of benefits and the environment is also great: 1 It's a startup tech culture, SO yoU know what to expect: Like there's not a lot of formality and office politics going on. There is monthly KPI performance bonus for this cosicoeaclyo get A 0r1d sirceay 1 social media never sleeps, you need to work in shift: There's not a lot of requirements needed. Even if you don't have an IT background, as long as you know how to use the computer and simple software functions, re good to go. But the competition is also high: get you'r attendance allowance. questioned my boss about this, and she explained that punctuality was simply part of our  bety pehialefforetenesedhot it should allowance. Although received a 4% salary increment and the promise of a promotion next year; felt 1 presenrted eesbeciaely considering the introduction of a new attendance allowance that seemingly deducted from my basic pay: This made me question my value and whether should look for opportunities @malaysianpaygap 1 elsewhere. Monthly gaming sessions, we allowance to games and play together: got to know most of my colleagues 4 during the trip, and found out that almost all of them have a partner boyfriend girlfriend. I joked around 8 with my friends that my company only hires people with a partner and their companyldepartment are all single people. Someone said "It's the privilege of work life balance" and |'ve been thinking about this alot, 7 cannot imagine going back to previous job 1 that requires commuting to work and wasting 2-3 hours daily, getting micromanaged, overworked, overstressed, pulling OT for both weekends, company politics etc. get buy Illustrator; self-employed in the arts and publishing industries Early 30s/ Cl F Six years' experience; | work 9 remotely: academic background is unrelated to illustration, but it 7 treitiedloue.tSare geghftor tned 1 various jobs had previously: Monthly income fluctuates based on projects, on average ~RMSk-6k from illustrating: My have started in this company for almost a one and a half years now: | am independently managing some clients and project on my own (most of the clientele are European/US based)_ The job is quite interesting but has its challenges As each day 1 we will need to resolve ongoing problems with various different clients from different parts of the world. My previous job was in banking: Most of the work did in banking tends to be repetitive but in retrospect the pay and bonuses was 1 Tigbes tha irsy jourrenereosation; project manager hence would like to know if this is the going pay rate a project manager position? Appreciate if other project manager consultants can give some insights! for Manufacturing Technician Process & Equipment Engineering MNC Factory 35 years Maperiealcv 1 Batu Kawan Penang Diploma in Engineering 1 RM48O0 + 500 Allowance Overtime based on salary calculation formula (1.5, 2.0 3.0) Bonus average x 2 salary Work extra hours can go until 1.5 Workine ogalaeekly shift rotation. 1 became self employed: Utilised my work experience and raked money for myself: Felt so proudl Become a global talent and earn from where you can the best pay Have min: 6 months of savings in case you have to resign from a toxic job immediately 3. Take a leap get Yes and arguably,; if you're looking at penetration testing (hereinafter referred as 'PT') as the joblfield alone, then yes the higher level view may not apply: it should not end there too there's so much more after that from 1 a career progression standpoint: Those in cyber practice can and should aspire to be the CISO, if not work within the CISO function/domain, as there is no one better than you (to transcend and distill your technical S knowledge and bridging with the business on risks and what ACTUALLY needs to be done not doing it for the sake of compliancel 3 post incident). You may not want to climb, and it's perfectly fine. But, the industry is severely lacking of future cyber practitioners that can actually the business and IT together to address issues. digress. If you're someone looking to 1 be a pentester; these are a few considerations from me as your guidance: @malaysianpaygap Big4 cyber? I.e. have never knew about that since you're well- 8 established in the accounting industry? Alas, key bring cyber marital status whether you are S single or married, everyone have to do oncall schedules: There's no toxic culture where usually "Single staff need to work more while married staff only do office hour because they need more time with family". A very fast pace working environment; you only have to reaichecea ririmoq a8kaceps a 1 (according to my fitness watch): | get bored easily if just stay infront of a computer screen, so this job really suitable for me. day 1 Hello MPG! Fm a medical practitioner; working in a hospital, salary pre-tax 30-40k AUD per month Location: Perth, Australia 1 Eachedor otaleediailnesiad Bachelor of surgery; 7 years post graduate (will 1 vorioisclessony) specialty here due to @malaysianpaygap SToRIES 0F CAREER SUCCESSTUL SwitCH Atter 30 How a Grab driver turned his life around to earning 3 USDS14O-260klyr: Personal experience think worth sharing: For a female muslim malay, it is 1 easy to be intimidated especially when you face groups of people who speak in different language while you're present: (I this 9 from Malaysians, not even from expats of same countries!) 0 However due to worldwide trend on inclusiveness, this can be 5 overcome just toughen up (though few times, just leave the room to protest in silence) _ These Malaysian racists usually don't last long in the company: Kindness goes a long way: Be kind and assistive, and you'Il the same treatment most of the 1 time. get get Avanade Graduate Program Kantar Analyst Program Hong Leong Bank Trainee Nestle Apprenticeship Sony FreshMinds Program Public Bank Maxis Graduate Programme Samsung Management Trainee programme (18 months) Zalora Management Trainee Program Program Duopharma Biotech Berhad Maxis Graduate Program Mattel Asia Pacific Graduate Trainee SWIFT Global Graduate Programme Hewlett Packard Enterprise's graduate programmes Johnson & Johnson Alliance Bank Management Trainee programme ( year) RMzK within High SCh High Sdirit Hi MPG! I'm actually still a high school student; thinking about what course to take in university. I'm really interested in biology related stuff such as Biotechnology or Biomedicine. However; people around me keep telling me that there's no future for biology and ask me to take other courses such as computer science & accounting: | would like to ask for some advice on my dilemma: Workshop Manager; Belting and Automation Industry: 31, Indian; Male. Zyrs in India, Iyr in MY: Seeahgoical Enginner;: 1 1 RM53OO As a foreigner the pay was satisfactory in the beginning: Due to the pandemic, the growing inflation and family expenses itareedertfeee heaytaolor for the 1 experience and quality of work / deliver. Medical sales representative 24, Chinese, Female 1.5 years (started during the 0 pandemic in 2020) 1 Kuala Lumpur Graduated with Bachelors in Food Science & Technology 8 Current salary: 5k (not inclusive of allowances) As some of you may be aware, our firm underwent two salary adjustments in the past two years, elevating our salaries to a competitive level among the Big 4 1 fowacdyesh uridg ahe esRonhall meeting; HR mentioned that due to the substantial salary increases, our bonuses for the year would be reduced: At that time, we didn't pay much attention, assuming the bonus reduction wouldn't be significant: 3 Also, they abolished the overtime leave as well: get Challenges that you could face: 1) sky high sales target to hit, 8 2)competitive & over saturated market; 3) rapport building with clients could take a century to build before you see the sales: 8 As Im still a junior; don't think that Im eligible to give advice yet: Based on my observations from my managers To make yourself the brand itself stand out from the crowd, the reps needs to be either 1 kreoweedgepec alwiayprbeing practical in emotional selling (high EQ, high confidence, good PR skills) aside, what I'm really struggling with is the managers' harsh treatment: I'm still new to the 0 company and lots of things I'm still learning and need guidance 6 (especially because consulting is not just read textbook and 0 suddenly know what to do. You need people to guide you:) manager has a lot of unreasonable expectations for me; expect me to alodle(odenughheeopie) arking 0 she uses a lot of harsh words like "were you sleeping when | said My Hello therel just wanna share my career for all those fresh graduates in civil engineering Job: Site Engineer (Graduated with degree in Civil Engineering, local uni) Place: Johor bahru 1 RasjoGdadowRnc8skK + =Rm3.5k @malaysianpaygap Experience: Zero experience but have 3 months internship in road construction as site engineer and 6 qaqc management benefits: Bonus; medical allowances, petrol, House(for outstation)_etc Age: 23 Gender: Male Race: Kadazan The largest UK contractor is 3 Balfour Beatty: Revenue of E8.4billion Profit before tax of E200m Profit margin of only 2.3% aGteruak masginwat 7orastc_ction 1 J respectively) Balfour Beatty has 26,000 0 employees which cost E1.3billion (15% of revenue) while profit is Gamuda employee cost is 2.2% of 0 revenue whilst profit is 17% Something is not right: 3 Job: Copywriter Location: KL  Gender: Female Race: Chinese Almost 30 Experience: Graphic Design (5 years) , Copywriting years) Qualification: Diploma Salary: RM35OO 1 love my company; and | am learning a lot here; especially about SEO writing, while maintaining a work-life balance: To be honest; it's my dream job because get to write about things like. could say hit the jackpot when landed a job as a copywriter in this company: Age: (3+ When the offer stands the only flash through my head was my wife 8 and our baby: How can give them a better life. So my message is this, to everyone out there looking for a job, please dont ever stop trying, and start somewhere, always dream big: dont mind if you dont post this, im 1 just happy to share this with you: This is my own victory; my big celebration: Something never thought i can off but i did. @malaysianpaygap Ps: finally an offer to be a school teacher in government sector on the same week! Magic work wonders, and 1 yes did went for the iv and now im waiting for the results. Thank you Malaysianpaygapl thing pull got Grom 290' Game changing Period care brand  first in the World using Corn to make eco= friendly sanitary blood for +e Sure" aii 0 mS 3 menstrwdi blood made Naturolly pad Skin-friendly Cora trom MadeF Pads meo mdde Kneel Heat Gorq Backl Heat Neckl Heat got 8 9if+ Tips: 1) Your past work experience might be rendered almost useless here. Gotta be prepared for a tough learning curve and period of adjustment, no matter your seniority: 2) When I am sad, stressed and Ior miss home, I wipe my tears with my Singapore dollars: Artrepreneur (Art entrepreneur) 4 31 Female Chinese 3+ years Good months up to RM 10k (on av RM 3-4k) 1 Bad months below RM 1k (MCO is a bitch)  don't need to please a boss for 1 money (finally and thankfully) , but do support people in the art industry as much as you can: We'Il promise to make the art scene in the country better: Good environment, good benefit, good colleagues, good manager; operation weekdays 8.30-5pm. BUT we did not have an auto promotion like pvemote yeaigheseoscionilt all 1 depends on your management and the opportunity in your branch: Was told I'm a performer but no promise given from the management: (*Been tried to tender resignation letter and this was told by my boss, and the promise means opportunities) Most staffs stays more than 10 years and retired over here, so for sure it 1 won't be my turn to the promotion lately: (Another 5 years? 10 years? 15 years?) get got To be part of the game show; please email us at hello@paygap.commy with::. your resume (only for the judges) your desired job position] title expected salary hours per week): My duties are preparing and serving food, making coffee and tea, taking orders, 8 collecting money; closing; and training newly hired employees: 1 have to ensure the cafe is stocked and can meet the menu at all times: also have to clean the cafe areas, inside and outside, to make sure that they are 1 safe and hygienic at all times: @malaysianpaygap For me; Ithink am quick to learn new things; it took me a month to pick up the cafe system and handle almost everything alone. I've been dreaming 2 of working in the f&b industry for a long time. (Don't get me wrong, still love it.) However; started to feel Account Executive (GL) Male Malay 24 Fresh Graduate Local Housing Developer Company Salary RM 2,500 (Probation, end June 2022) I'm accepted this is job of 1 J desperation after tons of company rejected me_ Hence the small salary: It's safe to say that the company management have successfully "scam me as when was entering 8 the job, 2 weeks later the Finance Manager & Senior Accountant resign from the company without telling me prior notice to prepared me mentally: was only informed on their last of resignation: out day now maintain a day job while doing night classes 3 times a week, and as | build my expertise in this area IIl most likely venture out into freelance tasks in the future:' LQQ  Cons joining MNC: 1. The workload is heavy esp. for pharmaceutical industry: 1 need to OT frequently to meet the deadlines: 2. The high dependency clients tend to be very demanding: For any ad-hoc reports, will set a very short deadline for you to meet: 1 wheri BBldeilingate theetieneriouo report to their end users. 4. The quality of some Operations and Sales are disappointing: Yet, it varies among individuals: 5. Politics may play a part while liaising with clients. Sometimes we are forced to filter the message before revealing to the end users or QA. @malaysianpaygap they In this job, you're not just dealing with kids, you're dealing with their parents' expectations and judgment as well: I have a really 1 good boss who became my best 3 friend, that's why continued to help her onloff for so many years: 0 This job is really taxing unless you 0 really love children and have endless patience to develop them. Otherwise, you'Il feel tired and hoesyed stereda Ohiatingebout 3 tmrw: day Now; I'm with my second company and everything is really different: The culture, management and communication is beyond expectation: The workload is 0 beerablelmed, eveguperior erer and teammates are always on standby to guide me through: cb discovered that must be willing to go somewhere else where am valued and can be a great asset for the company: And everyone should tool @malaysianpaygap 1 1 jooted FmdaytenceadaCotratraining and online workshops to get certificates and recognition. It took a lot of my free time, but it was all worth it! my For anyone who wants to enter this field, yes; you can: There are numerous free resources available 0 that you can refer to and learn from, such as HackTheBox; TryHackMe, and PortSwigger Academy: Learn the fundamentals. Keep learning and don't give up. The hardest part is getting started:. Once you get past that; you'Il find the rest of the journey 1 much easier: You can also expand your network by joining the Malaysian cybersecurity community, such as RawSec, ReHack; and Sherpasec. 8 Let's cultivate more cybersecurity talent in Malaysia: @malaysianpaygap advice to those who wanna take it is to really think it through and do consult with people who work in this field. Passion alone cannot provide food: This field is really niche and 1 Vrinkiayeotosreachirgalareer betorem its too late_ Does taking crash course or cert makes an effect if want to change career like data analyst? My EDUCATION PATHWAY SPM / 0-Level 25,209 Diploma in Foundation Prc-U Architecture (ta Bnli Enotm (Lecl SA SIPA etc) DegraeAm  Pchitecture 0 MOIL 5loinurdu4nama JhLautor Pa urouhug 'ncordieu NULecLNI 049'5 Kptonal Assustani Architect LAM Part I Quallflcntlon @malaysianpaygap Graduate Architect 1 ROTE !Ou Mrdto nrr?prctr Aaad TentrdAmn "70mot ?2 ,4 Juleu V God Rdilu LAM Part II Qualification Professional Architect My career progression started like this: 1 Year 1: Fresh grad at a startup: Starting salary RM2.Sk + RM2OO fixed travel allowance. @malaysianpaygap Year 2: Increment to RM2.9k + the RM2OO. Halfway through year 2 jumped to MNC with starting salary of RM3.Sk + RM250 fixed living cost allowance: After probation, my salary increased 1 Erod Olhe %ear Rceasedt dhegrin 260 RM5.3k + RM25O and was given discretionary bonus of RMISk My direct boss (Director of Sales) , Im 1 very close with him and we instantly gelled during my interview: Since then we've been working together and I'm like his right hand man: He mentioned that management wanted to cut my pay and make me focus on local market: After some back and forth; they decided to keep me on the 1 international market 2 weeks later (towards the end of July) they asked me to focus on Malaysia market without a pay cut. My primary focus was to open up touch points where our products can be displayed (mainly 3 modern and general trades) Assistant Chemist (Food Lab) 25, Indian, Female 2 months Fresh Grad) Sucaeforiindustrial 1 Biotechnology Hons) 1 Rm 2300 As a fresh grad feel the amount of salary | got is very underpaid for the position held. And the 1 worst things is we don't get for doing OT( extending hours)  paid Leading as area manager A bit lower than market price (usually area manager salary around 8k) This industry has a slow growth rate in terms of income but the income is tolerable. I'm not in a 1 state to get as much money as possible because my lifestyle is boring ~| accepted the offer thinking that being in a leadership position is better than the previous position but it is challenging Taekwondo Instructor Martial Arts 28, Malay, Male 7 years Across KL & Selangor Diploma Islamic Banking Current Salary: None Past Salary: 10-12k per month lost all my income when covid 1 1 hits. All of my classes in schools are closed til today: Govt are really stupid for not doing anything for the school's Co curriculum: As for now; teach taekwondo in private & also teach religious subject privately: | RM25O0 monthly: 4 am deeply in debt, so many debts to pay; but no savings left as have 2 kids under 3. No house, stay in parents for now (3 years already). All industry are operating, but not co curriculum in schools from march 2020 til February 2022. Iam dead: got However; find myself overworking and taking on too much work for my 1 own good. We are working in a small team so we tend to work on both creative and also managerial tasks at the same time. Hence feeling kinda burnt out and struggling to find 1 Wyiayfbad  conmenauaie wb 1 the years of experience in doing social media and copywriting work formally: Although my boss is willing to pay me more, he is worried I'm not able to meet his expectations of someone cb with more years of experience albeit my contribution to the department 8 and projects in general. 3. How do you reach out to overseas client when you first started out? Or how do you normally get your client? See previous answer: The first couple of years are the hardest; once you've built up a critical mass of work, it gets easier as clients come back to you or recommend you to others, and the work circulates as it's shared by your audience and peers: It's important to have a portfolio website (not just social medial!) that you can link to when contacting clients--if it's overseas, it's almost entirely via email. The Tumblr account 'Dear Art Director' has lots of useful advice about this. find that I'm able to focus and prepare much better when i only apply for one role: I sort of spammed around during my previous rounds of job searching and in application even though i wasn't truly interested: think 1 endechopgetdingngerheertetiery SQhat made me stressed and anxious and further affected my performance during interview @malaysianpaygap Also, another thing that would really like to share is don't be too eagerl desperate for the job (or at least not to let that show Be confident during the interview if you get shortlisted, there's definitely 1 somethiyg iatxentiorat ~aughe yoerselfi and comfortable during the conversation with recruiter andlor hiring manager: Make them feel that have to work hard i.e. put up a better offer so that can you put try get they they get You spilled some tea on resume Malavsianpavgap 17/7 SUN Discord stage 3-4pm (Link in bio) 4-5pm my Regarding my experience, was graduated as MSc (major in Molecular Biology) in Malaysia and was looking forward to get a job in overseas to gain my working experience: 1 apply a lot of countries and finally i got my offer from shanghai; and then started my first 1 job overseas. It is an invaluable experience especially for fresh graduates to step out internationally: Im not saying that our own country is not a good place, please don't get me wrong: The reason | chose to go overseas is because the roles related to my 1 major is much underpaid in our country (Im not sure about other major) . By the way; hope my experience provide some guides for those who considering jobs related to my field, as well as those who interested to look job overseas! Good Luck and cheers! Benefits: 3 Free accommodation inside the estate , as usually executive entitled for one whole unit of bungalow with standard housing furniture (eg: aircond, King size bed & Sofa) No repetitive work, where involving of tens to hundreds of foreign workers 1 as well as locals which creating diversify problems for us to solve Exploring the rural area around M'sia upon transferring to new arealestates with interval of 3-4 years. This would be good for those who like to explore native traditions, cultures and food Having 24days of annual leaves & Unlimited medical claim (touch wood I LOL) It's a great company, good and kind bosses who are willing to teach, good company culture, bonus; we don't OT a lot so there's work life balance. 1 got to 1 do a wide range of branding and design projects across different ] industries both from EM and WM: There's definitely a lot more opportunities in WM, 1 know can find a higher paying job there with thereostiolio aecdflenerierae, but 1 wanting to stay on in my hometown to up the design industry here_ good bring "In my 4 years of overseas studies; | never took a chance to waste a single penny and time: worked my off to pay for my course fees (total f45,000+) plus living expenses: worked as a waiter, campus tour guide; tutor; whatever can find during my down time; | will do it: At uni apart from my studies; started very early in building my career mindset attending networking sessions; career fairs, talks, mock interviews; hosting career events; applying internships; whatever that helps me shine brighter asa candidate, will do it: | "bite the bullet' and did what I had to do for a M very long time:' a** by as far as job search goes, it's tough everywhere isn't it? I'd say it is no harder than finding a job in Malaysia. At the end of the day it comes down to grit; work ethic, a lot of luck; and 1 showing respect to your potential employer: @malaysianpaygap 1 think being able to converse professionally with Americans in English is a reasonable ask for most Malaysians: We're so exposed to American movies nowadays that it 1 should be easy to get the hang of it. was quite shy at first but once got the hang of it, will quickly treat you as one of their own. Americans are very accepting in that way: they SHIPBOARD ORGANIZATIONAL CHART MASTER MARINER CHIEF ENGINEER CHIEF OFFICER Si SECOND ENGINEER SECOND OFFICER 4 THIRD OFFICER ETO THIRD ENGINEER PUMPMAN BOSUN FQURIH ENGINEER FITTER AB AM MTMi OLR O5 EM WIPER DECK CADET ENGINE CADET Progression on my career 3k-4.2k-5.8k-I1k to 15k Background of current job ~manage to travel around the world; know more of Ecommerce business 1 ftaandecferes fobltom a good relationship with my client on my last job. She leave the company, join my current company and ask me to come over: ~Company is extremely flexible as long you hit your target ~Working remotely and have 100% control on 1 hgvo Mlong yaugge YOONorkingrour 996 culture, but when your boss find you urgently, you must be there anytime to revert and provide solution: get A lot of work need to be done, starting with the brainstorming of the new idea, finding food formulations; testing the formulations, formulation adjustment; food testing, quality checking and once it successful 8 we need to present it to the management team for their approval: 1 In overall really love & enjoy 8 doing my job. However; lately start to feel stagnant in my career progress  Doing the same thing and facing the same problem everyday makes me feel burned out too. was thinking to look for 8 the new challenge (change workplace) . But; here everything is already great (including the boss & CO-worker)_ afraid cannot find the same great workplace like what have now: Dilemma: E-Commerce & Sales Manager; night time Crypto Trader 5 years of experience Bachelor's Degree in Engineering RM1O,000 Monthly Gross Salary RM5,OO0-RM1O,OO0 Average Crypto trade Monthly Earnings 27 Years Old, Chinese 8 Average working hours: 50-60 hours] peekieek but ver companjob verays j result oriented: You can work half the time but as long as you can churn out results. Pretty much after work, Ijust get home and check on any crypto trades and place a futures 1 trade on it. won't treat this my main income, more like a side hustle: Benefits: Not much in terms of 8 medical and allowance. Company recently just gave me a new Honda Civic as part of Benefit-In-Kind (BIK). Working from office full time. Male, good HI MPG~ 26y/Male/Chinese Worked as AML investigator (doing transaction monitoring for 1 aocounter and corporate Degree in business 2 years Foreign bank in KL Starting salary (2020): RM 3K 1year later (2021) RM 3.6K & 1 Bonus about RM 10K Recently (2023) RM 4.6K & still not sure to for a Salary Phd Jap RMG,500 Grots Ap 20k Malay erall Nan 10k Malet RM3,650 OF i Bv 931 75 84 for you to 3.6 good 3.5 companies 48 93 perks, _ 3.3 by 18.2k your 30 62 7.53 peers! (mehhah) wages market out find Feedback 'of Submisslongs Media you Social = 5,292 Demographics dashboard Submission E Satisfaction Salary Monthly Salary Gross Job RN9 900 Overview Specialisation RM9,100 na (Overtene) Ruioon Civnes? Pmtsit Decie? MIAN Industy Masler? Uindian 0-4scasE Sahd Vontt Ru RM6,125 Nain Ciner Roicgt'Orn Cenmic_Lonial Salary Gross = RVS Fo0 Median ,500.00 AUsow Dere Dochelera RMA, Ovetieu: AUsoO RMs 025 any( Dcgree olera Mas1er $ B Ro RM4 200 Degrer Femniele Buctiu' or $ RM4 0JO Schooll Rva,  Yezr Prolesgora RM2SK Dinica Culicsuons ~RMI9K RM22ZF Ultimate RMiek RMIJK RMIOK Saltty Toma Monthly = RMs175 0ror; LOST {Ood.oo companies RM? E Salary Monthlv Gross Malavsia With 143 Gooood PERKS Total Submission Malavsianpavgap another Onraitte rr 9677 ranona {andeitt Titatt on 4 seek chtoneri out q Or Atur Ceuponao alan with Lnernot 31et shared 5 04lete} Urebets) you wanted: If you are hard working; ten thousand monthly salary or more is not a problem: But of course you must solve your customer problem and what situation are facing: J Sometimes you will encounter sitlatonesearch or GoogleFfor me; 0 watch other practitioners how fix this problem or ask my senior; Dr or Now most of my customer walk away happily: am happy that | choosen this path, my income are stable & / can also help a lot of people: they they prof: account executive(APIAR) Female/Malay/33 Mnc Salary:Rm4ooo(bonus twice a year) Ukle {Bachefar accounting) 1 CGPA 3.10 have 10 years experience in the company: This is my second 1 company; my first was outside KL earning Rm1200 in Kelantan: am currently pursueing my ACCA as scholarship + study leave but dont see can help in future. not happy with my work environment borapeensf) tanid otdicersolytiss 1 most of the meeting are not in English or BM. Also the job is pretty repetitive and feel i am not learning much. Planning to switch company after finish ACCA: got Senior UX Designer; Fintech industry last 5 years 1 KOash, Lualeuchinese 9 years experience Diploma from local college 6 Salary Pre Tax: Rm13000  Its less pressure here, friendly and 3 helpful collegue no overloaded task, manageable; just the salary 1 as newly married woman kinda low i guess to support my own family and my parents. Should i be hegotiate gailaryoeriehoeid move 1 since company don't really think about salary raise. 22 If you wish to pursue a career in this field with chances of 0 advancement; being based in KLI PJ will be better for you: Almost all of the head office of the big players are located there. While for me, at this age, as long as there's enough to pay the bills and put food on the table while 1 not being far from my loved ones for too long is the main priority: 1 YEAR ANNIVERSARY RECAP Telegram just hit 11k 4,472 members! following! + 1 2 DISCORD 11,326 members! TikTok 12 virtual events IG 551 physical posts created! event data You dashboards Qube) hitting _ 4,000 watch hours = sooni ideologies that make me this ad hoc that could allow me to learn new things as long it won't kill me, | am willing to and coordinate ~Making the right choice during the 9 working hours is important, social with the best client you have, 1 kiowogeaguedustry kxampedge landed my new job by growing my client business, value my work and offer me well: ~Overachieving is not a must but trying your best is.  Meeting many good and kind 1 redeaguceer ouenehroeghockyand grateful with everything that happen in my career journey: Key far, ~Any try they STAY AT HOME MOM 27/Chinese/Female 3 1 year Bachelor's Degree Salary: RMO 8 Not a prank message. 2 was a (one-man-team) videographer and editor RM2k gasip excbudecnereiseoe moright 1 projects, everyday was tiring but exciting and fun, | can say was having great life at that time for that is my dream job_ for, Igot my first job interview through the university job portal. Again, researching the right uni for your future employment is important: Your 1 Uni should be a feeder school for big companies that hire internationals: @malaysianpaygap As an example for computer science , schools like UWashington and CMU are famous; but are more expensive. UWisconsin Madison is cheaper but more remote and has less immediate job opportunities 1 1 touched on a lot of aspects, and each aspects could take a whole other page of text to cover in even more depth_ "There were countless of benefactors who help lifted my fighting spirit throughout my overseas journey; and Im very grateful for them: That S why Im also learning to pay forward to the people who are used to struggle like me and is looking for a way out: | want to help them realise there'S always light at the end of the tunnel, you just need to look ahead and move forward" The market wage is ranging from cny 10-15k for fresh grads 1 degrieeurDuergrereentervieters session, was first questioned about my decision on choosing to work in a foreign country; | expressed my thoughts and career plans within 5 years. My strength was the strong publication records in peer- reviewed international journals 1 covered by SCI, have 5 publications in total at the time i (2 from BSc and 3 from MSc). grad And it helps that I'm actually quite passionate about my current role. 1 had two rounds of interviews and both interviewers noticed that and asked 1 why am I looking for a new role when / love what do currently: told them it's because I'm looking for better exposure and an opportunity to work for a global company: didn't mention the increment but that's of course another major motivation hahaha_ got that inspiration from my current manager. She's very passionate about what she does. When she talks about 1 why she does what she does, her eyes sparkle. can feel that passion every time and that makes her a really @malaysianpaygap charming person in my eyes. Drawback: Working hours: 6am to Spm (1-3pm breaktime); Usually there will be additional working hours as tonnes of 3 paper workslemailslwhatsapp to be replied as well as often to have emergency emailslwhatsapp to be replied at night Stayed inside rural area where possibility of having night entertainments or even "city food" like boba tea will be hardly to find athighhiog evepers around stanabtato 1 tackle the problem for example the workers fighting at night will involve the assistants to resolve the workers' problemlargument Work under hot sun (pandai2 la) Personally; feel that the agriculture industry in Msia is deteriorating as lesser youngster involved. Hence, it is lacking of new input of innovation, I concepts and ideas; Near future there might be left with grandpa & grandma within the industry to control the raw materials production in the local food supply chain: At the same time, find people who are commissioning that sort of work--illustrators will normally thank their art directors or editors when post their work on social media, some novels or magazines will list the art director who worked on it, some publishers' websites will have a section for artist submissions. Send your portfolio website link to these clients along with a *short* intro email. Keep doing this. It's not a bad idea to to know writers and other people involved in publishing either: they get understand that most of us in F&B industry are underpaid. Stay strong brothers and sisters. If you feel you need to get compensated, fight for it! sedetheystndersaged eotoerfeeer 1 what you went through: And fellow friends who are still in the industry; the only will keep you going in kitchen line is the passion: My advice for yall, dont in the same company for too long: Especially hotel, jump around hotels will certainly add value to ur career path: And dont 1 be afraid to seek other skills and knowledge as it will be the added- value to urself: Keep up the passion to my fellow chefs out therel they thing stay Talent Acquisition in MNC. Female, 25. Less than 1 year experience in my current job. Was a STEM grad: Cannot cari makan, decided to jump to corporate_ Was offered RM3.2k. thought 1 that was luxurious enough when first accepted the offer; until 1 started working, when learn it's possible to earn way higher: Got promoted with salary RM3.7k after 8 months_ Don't be to ask for more_ 1 Sidenote to engineers in chip making industry: job market in this industry is getting more competitive. Know your worth: Give the number you want: You might get it: shy Job: Part-Time Caregiver 1 Salary:  RM1O-IS/hr; RM24O-RM360/ weekend: Gender; age, race: Male, 26, Malay: 4 Qualifications: Undergoing a Diploma in Nursing: Industry: Care/Caregiving 1 Full time Student RMO Side hustle freelance front-end developer Rm6ooo++(1000-I500USDI months) Im currently on my semester break, actually it is my first time 1 8 freelancing; I'm started because want to enhanced my portfolio found someone who hire me from Discord who to be founder of 1 startup, sound like a joke but it is 8 what it is The capital that have invested is just my time to learn coding and 8 my decent computer spend 4 hours to find and learn the problem and solve it since it was easy task, it is also to fill my time and my portfolio during semester break before graduating @shallouekrx As a cybersecurity engineer; working in this industry is quite challenging especially when you are in red team(offensive team): You have to keep learning and update with the newest security incidents. You must herwvorktzoc Securiedgsel Linux | J want to suggest to undergraduates out there, if you are already in this path; please do not rely only on the syllabus! Most of my knowledges and technical skills come from my self study: Get as much experiences and knowledge before you step up in this industry: People will not judge you by 1 your age but will judge you with the skills that you have_ they Job: Case Manager industry: Legal services salary pre-tax: MYR ~7300 (probationary pay; | get paid weekly) Location: remote Gender; age, race: F; 30, Chinese Qualification/years of experience: 0 in this job, >5 years in publishing; 2 8 years in education used to work as a book editor; and an international school teacher: stopped working during the pandemic for health reasons and uncertainties in my 8eisdes, syboolingsartzrgugents I cover for their school + daycare fees; SO rather convert to a SAHM: used to do lots of freelance jobs (RM2OO- RM8OO per job depending on its type) for my ex company but projects haven't come in for a while, so |'ve lost my source of income and had to depend wholly on my husband for a few months 1 do know that took some time to learn the craft and even develop a system or workflow for myself to the point where my boss can trust me fully to get it done with minimal to zero guidance or corrections. L Anyone who has a similar education 1 background as me in this industry can share your views? If you were to ask me, know deserve better: Iam not entirely sure how cb much longer can bear this pressure. 8 Automation & Manual Test Engineer 1 Saoarancex (included travelparking Been in the same company since 2015 (exactly after grad) Im not sure if my current salary is below range or not: have never work/know how the other company pay for approx 8y of experienced: Wanted to ask my colleague abt this 1 becenteym sidasharapabite(nochbt Ehe salary) This guy shared, u with the years of experience have. Mine is underpaid: anyone knows ? Fintech Copywriter Malay Female Location: Selangor WFH Degree: Hospitality & Tourism Management Formerly a junior content writer at a GLC_ Basic salary (2019): RM48O0 Basic salary (current): RM5650 from increment; not promotion 1 Beaietable expenses: RM6800 per 1 year for vacation, health supplements, WFH equipment, smart watch, food delivery etc: Annual leave: 18 days Sick leave: 15 days Sick leave wlo MC: 3 days Birthday leave: 1 Bonus: about Ix salary (twice a year) + company shares 31, day Year 3: Salary increment to RM5750 + RM25O + discretionary bonus of RM18550 1 Year 4: Halfway through year 4 | got an opportunity to work in Singapore as a software engineer under employment pass. Salary was SGD45OO + SGD7O mobile allowance @malaysianpaygap Year 5: got a different opportunity to work remotely for a US company paying at $50/hour as an independent contractor. 1 Add on freelance work in year 5: creating logic drawings for building management systems at SGD5O/ drawing: In the architectural profession's road to becoming a licensed chartered Architect is separated into 3 main parts. In theory; you can only call a person an Architectl prefix Ar: after 1 hel she completes all 3 parts of their journey @malaysianpaygap Part 1: typically and 3 year degree in a recognised architecture school Part 2: a further 2/3 years of Mastersl Bachelors in Architecture Part 3: One who has completed his] 1 her professional exams and registered with the Board of Architects Malaysia In between, we participate in alot of exhibitions around the world, to display our products and for brand awareness. A year is roughly 4-8 1 exhibitions. So there's alot of traveling overseas. Just from Jan-June |'ve been to 5 countries Apart from exhibitions; we're encouraged to fly out to meet ur foreign clients in order to grow the account and build relationship. @malaysianpaygap 1 Here's when things started to take a dive, July was initially told that since we're a local company we should focus on building our presence locally first before international. was not 3 very interested in the local scene and the market is saturated and my overseas market was getting alot of traction: So far the only downside that i see is that it is not secure. NGOs got funding from corporate, hence ot/ benefits/increment issue is always there. Do note that depends on the scale of the NGOs and project, 1 saigriego s ferevariencng ane jbs opportunity is either from NGOs, government or as consultante needs lot of experience) I got lucky since my boss pays me minimum fresh salary with nothing experience.   grad Before had my first job, | always thought that mental health can't be that bad until it hit me hard. Years of 0 bee suorkiagised a fretocompany can Got sick every month due to stress: A company with 'family business' hierarchy will you down: cb Employees that enter the company with 'cable' can do everything @malaysianpaygap want: Voicing your opinion will make yoU 1 1 {hPeopbepoag'ictiploged management covers them: RACISM is real: drag they top "A golden lesson I've learned so far is that failure and learning is part of the process: would have had an easier time job hunting if actually knew what it was | liked/ am willing to put up with; but for many people that means trying different experiences; failing, learning from them, and moving on to the next one; always:" strange for someone who's 0 "supposed" to be holding a high pay position to work as a server: The reality is, you gotta do what 7 you can right now to keep yourself ] going: If you're financially struggling and still have commitments, you're strong and resilient. 1 sincerely hope for all of us to secure a job we'Il be happy 1 with and be able to support ourselves and manage our commitments_ 8 love it.) However; started to feel overwhelmed and burned out from having to do everything mostly alone in a fast-paced cafe environment with long working hours. Recently, made a 8 request for a reduction in my working time but got rejected: Honestly; I think I've done my best to help the company; but at the same time, | don't feel valuable while working here. My boss is the type of person who purely throws money in and expects workers 1 to keep the cafe running while they are out there having the time of their lives. @malaysianpaygap I'm kind of stuck here and need advice and guidance. May know what should do? Am being dramatic? Is it 2 normal? Plust++ working here doesn't have annual or medical leave, epf; sosco Judge 2: Dinesh Currently part of Unilever's Future Leaders Program of HR and also the President of Emerging Leaders Asia. Dinesh considers himself asa Talent Catalyst who is passionate about people development and youth empowerment. Oh I've forgot to mention that I'm the youngest in the office, but Im one of the 3 in conservation surrender policy among branches_ This is one of my achievement during 2021. 1 Conservation is one of our KPI during the year 2020-2021, we need to avoid our customer to surrender their policy due to reasons (mostly financial difficulties). So we try our best to persuade and offer another way in order to help them to keep the policy for the protection, and also manage to get seeortoeetofog tSeiff emteogency: 1 manage to conserve most of the customers. yal top get It's also a balance among treating the kids with empathy and care, disciplining them because there are too many to jaga at once, and being their friend because are at the centre more than being at home: Over the years, I've witnessed 2 many teachers come and go as J the stress outweighs their responsibility for the children: There really is a need for better compensation and benefits for all teachers out there_ I"'ve seen my friend (the principal) 3 grow over the years and constantly striving for the employees' benefits: But at the end of the it's the higher management at fault and the market for underappreciating teachers: they day, Pest control industry is not glamorous: Salary is not high as compared to other demanding jobs. Half of your time will be going to fields, whereas another half will be doing reports in the office. If you are outgoing and love 1 sciteingluwitloeeschscltent stro playground to you: It depends on how you are going to manage your clients. Do work well with the clients so that your life will be easier: @malaysianpaygap My first market research stint was paying me RM2,800 as junior executive_ A year later | jumped ship to another market research company as senior 8 executive with RM3,600 salary: 2 years later was promoted to 1 associate manager with RM5,500 pay: After 3 years as associate manager; moved back to my first market research company as Operations Manager with RMZ,000 salary (excluding allowance) . I would like to advise people to not ihegevethed ptiosecr bowarequaertipbs 1 they change jobs because you never know of their circumstances: < Do not be afraid to voice out concerns and always discuss goals and expectations with your manager so can help you to achieve it: they 8 It was in late October; me and my wife was struggling with financial problems; we had to minimize our groceries and no more take aways during lunch: All the money save up for our baby: finally made the decision to leave in November by 1 @Rloikgrafotheeeohotat recacies me happen got a call from one of the director; mentioning they were watching me for the past few years and decided to promote me to as the company hr and training was provided, option to get a hr cert was 1 also on the table, it only take me few seconds to say yes: @malaysianpaygap Social Media Copywriter 24 (Female/Malay) Selangor 2 years exp RM2,500 Please to those who are looking for work or internship in related field: If you ever feel like re under appreciated at your company; leave: didnt believe in 1 racial distnegieatioy ownoollefgee 1 from prev employer experienced that: Malay girl got RMI,8k while Chinese girl got RM2,4k and their job scopes are the samel Except that the Malay has an 'extra' work assigned by our boss which isn t related to the company: SHE DIDNT EVEN GOT PAID NOT EVEN ONE CENT. Thank she left after advised her to do so. you paid paid god Family-r brand momd 2 FatA Mg Mg Mg ele aii of Moisturi Injey Magnesivgn For 4 no 8 Sleep cus elementz Mg aaughtec Jwol meatz Scce Gootltin made enough nasW get lnwta mS Cat Lr 39 good deficien Accountant, Accounting Firm 25 yrs old, woman; malay 2 months, this is my 4th company Kuala Lumpur Professional Cert ACCA 1 Basic RM3,600 1 Worked with 2 big4s but due to overworked and bad environment decided to Now have a very peaceful life even though my salary is not very high compared to my friends. Mental health >>>>> money quit. You are entitled to of leave each month which are not paid for: If you are absent your salary will be cut equivalent to 3days' pay: If you are absent but have a doctors note you are still getting a pay cut equivalent to Iday: Only after almost 1 year and a half with sprorsoted. Butsrietaot Mcopger 1 were the same only added: And when i applied to change departments was not approved as were short in staffs. Only after almost Zyears had realized how much the took granted for the work we do with such pay: The was not equal to the time and work we I gave out: Not to mention we worked 1Ohrs a with Ihour break Dont waste your time when you feel like youre job does not equal to what you work for: 4days they Pay day This" "don't expect me handhold you: I'm not your mother:' "You're senior right? If not we hire "If this is the exam question, re failing the exam see her 0 perspective, and that there is a lot on her plate as But really; I'm starting to have depression from stress, crying, lack of sleep and { having to listen to her harsh words everyday: I'm not looking to blame but hope others out there 0 can give me their advice_ know consulting will always be this oi going Corporetetaining theorder 0 if will make the right decision: advice would be appreciated, as really am struggling now: Thank why you?" you' well: her, Any youl started in one of the Big 4 in 2019. Initially; 1 didn't have a particularly favorable view of the career 1 had chosen; as accounting and tax roles seemed somewhat the same anyway: 1 was quite content with my department and team because most of us are kind and caring: Even my department head was remarkably easygoing: | deeply appreciated the m knowledge I gained in my department and was willing to work : diligently; especially under managers who genuinely cared about their staff. path Leasing Admin, Retail 25, Chinese, Female 1.5yrs Selangor Bachelor's Degree Salary: 2.6k 1 1 was questioned all the time with this statement "Are you gonna be an admin forever?" Seriously, what's wrong in being an admin 1 forever? Got so tired of having to deal with people thinking their job is more superior than yours and they claimed admin has no better future. WHAT'S WRONG IN BEING AN ADMIN? The downside of this industry is my clinical skills were hardly applied and being forgotten along the way: (Worth of 4-Syrs study) Some retails doesn't equipped enough with medical equipment to do a comprehensive test to patientlcustomer: After all;, still love my job because got such supportive colleagues and being paid handsomely for a fresh graduate (also entitled to a commission of zaget sncGeoeusing paveeageles 1 personal sales target is around Rm1Ok-2Ok per month: But anyone else knows how to better increments in this industry? Not sure about wages in private government hospital though: Your comment and tips below is very much appreciated: Thanks: My get Part time piano teacher Full time student Selangor F; 19, Chinese ATCL Diploma 1 Started in Jan 2023 have about 10 beginner students, 45 mins per student Working days: Friday and Saturday Their fees is RM130 per month and only 55% commission sO my 1 pay is about RMZOO+ If my student is absent; | don't until the lesson is replaced, same goes to public holidays: It's tiring but rewarding :) get get paid Top Glove TM Executive Leadership Industrial Training (8 months) TM Protege Trainee PROTEGE May-bank Petronas GEES (I-year) UEM Sunrise Aeon Graduate Trainee Programme Iltizam Professional Development Programme Pharmagrad by Pharmaniaga Sunway Construction Media Prima Berhad Within RM1-2k Cons: 1. Lower pay but same amount of 1 work compared to our colleagues in different countries, especially UK and Europe. Probably because many MNCs come to Malaysia bcs our talents' payscale are low (vs Singapore, at least) 0 2. Rapidly changing systems and 1 company structure (eg overnight announcements) but if you are agile, this is manageable as the company gives a lot of change management support Bad side is, the work you do can quickly become irrelevant if not pitched in line with change. 1 Every company different drama: Right boss is the matter: Learn to let go & be grateful in life Know when to say "NO" Do not be a ppl pleaser never judge a book by its cover; the most intimidating person is always more nice than those who look cute 4. Navigate through human relationships is a skill Well, branding issues (at least for my firm) . Anyway; partially the reason for this sharing in spreading awareness that Big4 has cyber capabilities as well (and we equally do goocesting abouimiaringigsa Bge, 1 your network of resources, scalability, and experiences are there for you to collaborate and tap in in which boutique or smaller firms may not be able to offer: Bigger conglomerates S may prefer to work with Big4 for the experiences we bring (along with brand reputation) , but sometimes to MSSPs and boutiques for pricing: 3 Core skills if I'm not an ITI Computer Science grad, can do PTI go into cyber? @malaysianpaygap Short answer: Yes, provided you're willing to effort into catching up with the knowledge gap. Relevant 1 degrees help a lot in instilling key concepts (esp. in Comp Sc subjects Secure SDLC, Access, identity, crypto, etc) and those are fundamental towards what you need to do. Without 8 it, you'Il need to pick up on your own, at your own pacelway: too, good thing i.e. put Marketing Exec; Palm Oil industry 26, Chinese; Female 3 years 1 Pechelor s Degree 1 Salary: RM3.5k (exclude bonus which can go up to 4-6 months (or higher)) 9-5 job, high bonus, good medical 8 benefits, dream job. Job Position: Executive Assistant Industry: ICT Salary: RM6,900 Age: 30 Gender: Female Race: Chinese Location: Selangor Academic Qualification: Diploma Corkinghoirt 20ofidle galoyoe6pm 1 but sometimes if need to get work done, I'l but it's quite flexible in a sense that you can work from home only if needed: No increment as of now: think I'm an asset to the company because solve problems for my boss quite immediately but then who's counting? Im somewhat happy with my current job and work colleagues: Would be happier if it beinganewssieterelssn MVaawbe beasy 1 because you have to gel well with your reporting manager (in my case the boss and not all bosses are nice). think had some doubts being an EA at first due to stereotypes of how a PA would sleep with bosses and whatnot as didn't want to be looked at as THAT but decided to jump into this field because enjoyed solving issues stay left the company at the end of January without securing an offer- letter: Looking back, it was the best decision |'ve ever made. Ijoined my current company in mid-February after some intense job-hunting: My reporting manager is quite chill, he S gives full creative control to US, as long as we are able to follow the scheduled timeline; we are allowed to do anything: And honestly, it only takes me about 3hours to complete 1 my tasks for the usually start my after lunch hours, complete my tasks, nudge my colleagues and interns and see if they need help with anything, help them solve bugs until dinner; then end my day: Benefits here are quite nice too: thixeoOTeathouglwancely 'wifetting 1 -14 Paid increasing by 1 every year after 3year ~Birthday Leave ~Family Care Leave ~Spectacles, Dental, Covid Test claims etc ~Yearly Company trip (I managed to on this year's despite only being with them for 3months) day: day AL, day hop @malaysianpaygap Recently; received a 4% salary increment and was congratulated by  Heweveclefoond hetoregpgoulotooy; tone and the modest raise perplexing: My confusion deepened when introduced a new attendance 1 adgicapay deeditetibein P5nCtoal. The company presented it as an added benefit; but it was actually a reconstructed allowance. Previously, we had a fixed RM15O allowance, now split into RMIOO fixed and RM5O 1 attendance allowance. questioned they Software Test Engineer (Automation) _ IT Industry KMYR 75klmonth 1 Female, 27, Malay @malaysianpaygap Masters Degree, 4.5 years of experience Current company is MNC in energy and cyber industry: So far increment is 8 5-10% per annum based on performance. Working hours is around 8 hours per day, and work life balance here is also achievable as everyone is working from home only: Ijumped to my current company with 1 ~4o increment from previous company: YESTERDAY 7:13 AM In-House Lawyer; Consulting (Expanding Internationally) 1.5 years 4k LLB + BPTC yeacd oratbek uxjereenach werey 1 with a MNC in an operations role and then a regulator in a policy role @malaysianpaygap am now working in an in-house legal role and it has been a good experience as have to work boroneeveniag and never had to 1 The pay isn't especially high but the culture here is friendly and lively where you are valued for your contributions and invited for many company events_ path yet 8 Helloo, i'd like to share my journey 1 here at MPG need advice from all of you on my current situation. Thanks! 1 Job: MARCOMM Social Media Salary pre tax: RM 1900 Gender: Female, Malay 25 1 Years f experience: 2 years @malaysianpaygap Company type: famous GLC Company Average working hours: flexible 9 1 boumute teyoti anaus of daily 8 Age: In 2017, was captivated by how quickly the tech scene was evolving in SEA and noticed that tech firms 1 often hired ex-management consultants_ leveraged my 0&6 credentials and embarked on a 2 year journey of intensive preparation to finally secure a strategy consultant role in 2019, 1 initially advising on O&6, but with a clear intention to pivot towards tech/digital: This taught me to think creatively to forge my own path: ~ Igot my break when met a manager who gave me a shot at a tech start up. 1 betGadowed the besstaeredie fceve, ~ willingness to learn) and my risk taking in wanting to change my career: @malaysianpaygap think / got lucky, and now I'm forever grateful: But /'ve met many managers along the 1 way with the same sentiments, so don't be afraid of trying and cast your 1 net wide I'm happy to be able to work in a field that despite the stereotypes that people have ("can't find money in music field") . Some people that can gigs consistently will get good money; similar to other freelance works, connection is one of the 1 most important aspects in music J field: work with young kids so it's tiring at times, especially managing classroom to balance having fun vs discipline to learn: 1 am priviledged to do the things enjoy; though like performing more but teaching provides the financial stability: The con for my job right now is the lack of off days, as work 7 days a week: like , get The Progressive Wage Model (PWW) helps to increase wages of workers through upgrading skills and improving productivity. What is it Developed by tripartite committees consisting of unions, employers and the government; the PWM helps to uplift lower-wage workers' wages. Since being implemented, PWM sectors have raised wages at a sustainable and meaningful pace; without hurting the livelihoods of the lower- wage workers: The PWM benefits workers by mapping out a clear career pathway for their wages to rise along with training and improvements in productivity and standards. Getting the most out of your paycheck & job hopper session SPEAKERS Aaron Tana aha Mr 7 APAC Stine- Luno The Famous Aunty HR Mr. the eosy financial yotucer MORE SPEAKERS COMING! NEED YOUR It would be wise if | can hear some advise from y'all: Or else I'Il be continue apply teaching; learning & development related job, or maybe just pickup any offer for me to sustain the living: Hopefully can find a good working environment,; supporting boss as well out my passion to serve and help others: God bless. Thanks in advance Note: My contract is ending this year end* Advice_. living position both in marketing) . But approaching near the end of the second half of this year; i'm beginning to feel demotivated to continue moving forward in this industry as i'm constantly exhausted and stressed, worrying about the next fire have to out at work. Would love to hear 1 1 more from other people in the ad world who have faced a similar experience, and what really motivates them to keep going! sorry for the large words, but i feel like this is something worth 8 knowing for the people. havent been seeing a lot of agency posts on here so figure it better to put in my experience for ppl to take from it put helding A BrothEr Out Hi MPG. My brother; I8y0, has strong passion in the field of animals. Even now; he is volunterring at an animals clinic for the past 2 months (without salary) _ However; he got below average results and is planning to retake spm: He isn't an academically driven person like me and lean more towards practical skills. have been searching all over if there are programmes and certification courses for someone like him in this field: Will be a great help if you could assist me. 1 Job: Content Review Trainer Salary Pre Tax: 4700 29 Years of Experience: 2 Company Type: MNC Increment History: RM18O > RM56O Average Working Hour: 8 Iam working as a Content Review 7 reacheed the bottleneck Kelt tkis have career: The next step for me to Age: 8 2020 got my first increment to RM255O ), bonus 2 months: 2021 increment to RM2680, bonus 2 months. 2023 Jan onwards started working 1 Goshsihtist adowance Rnd 5050 12am currently my gross pay is RM2830. Now awaiting 2022's increment and bonus in April (if ada lah)_let's see lah 8 Coach Fitness Industry Male 27 ylo 3 years working experience 4-5 different Strength & Conditioning Nutrition Coaching Certifications Honestly; you don't need that many certifications cause it only teaches you the theoretical part but not the practical side. Choose 1-2 certification and continue to improve OFERIoedge-froientereraREE 1 Yes; for FREE IN THE BEGINNING! You will learn a-lot more before entering the real world of coaching: Salary Pre-Covid RM 3,000+ Salary Post-Covid RM 10,000 Starting first coaching job at a 8 commercial gym is a pretty good start to find new clients & set a steady foundation: But U're probably gonna do more hard selling rather than understanding the art of applying your coaching knowledge & building relationships to help clients. your All 0f our 'speahers are Carefully Curated to quarantee athenticity SUMMII LINEUP No fahe we're alleqic to MALavSian Pavgap qurus BSl Wrong; it was extremely frustrating in the beginning with zero help, guidance; and system but eventually it became a lot easier after invested in a mentorship program: It was not cheap at all . had around RM1O,000 in my savings account and the amount needed to invest in the program was RM12,5O0. 1 was on the fence at the time cause IIl only be left with RM2,500 to survive. My fear was"How long are we gonna be in this lockdown?" took the of faith because the 8 program had a guarantee that if you don't make RM5,OO0 back in the first 30 days, you'Il get a FULL REFUND, but only IF you in the work: spent 2 weeks on creating my own system. Another 2 weeks was spent on finding potential clients. leap put Increment was not really much 3 to 4 percent: Promotion progress is slow due to hierarchy in the company: Leave approval was difficult. Company was over concern on my pregnancy and wellbeing as my 1 {houaee storejng easewoederingt am underpaid with the qualification and experience? advise on career development? Any Borneo t0 JB Hi there MPG Im from Borneo and looking forward to relocate to Semenanjung for career advancement and salary jump, recently got a job offer with 2.5k in JB (my current job here is 1.8k include allowance) . Wondering if this is a good and worthy offer to accept ? Appreciate it a lot for any insights from fellow MPGians here: Thanks Additional info about the job offer accomodation and meals provided company located near CIQ JB evaluation for career progression within 1 year  got The highest income /'ve ever had since 8 months of working here is RM6790 (including commission)_ Achieved it during my 6th month here 1 Gyouheeverouf uroufotiyepreciaced: looking for one :) You're halfway there eventually: General management (one level below C-suite) late-stage tech startup, based in KL: 33 W ~10 years 1 of working experience. Did chemical engineering at a top1O uni: Total comp RM38k a month (~75% in salary; rest shares & bonuses) | In 4 years transitioned from O&G to Consulting to Tech, went from an individual contributor to a leader driving multiple teams, and >3x my income. For what it's worth; is my salary worth it including the Elaun Hidup Susah (pedalaman)? Heck NO. But is it rewarding? ABSOLUTELY, YES: The community is great, parents are always supportive even with what little income have, they'd still do their part in peBGittherdsowe tfooooocenceon 1 them and being ready to learn about the outside world_ ] Being a pedalaman teacher has taught me a lot and not everyone has the ba**s to do the s*it that we do on a daily basis (if we re stranded we sometimes sleep in 8 our cars untill the next day) But even with all the shortcomings of being here, as mentioned a very rewarding career; I'd rant about how our salary isn't enough for us to go to school every day having 1 to face the dangerous route ahead, but it'$ worth it to serve my kids and help them get out to the world, be successful: they ~ Key learnings in career: Don't be afraid to pivot; pivoted 1 iad naprioffeereertence stries F ptbyee to ~ my strength is BD Learn to interview & sell yourself; focus on skills, thought process, personality this trumps relevant exp. most of the time @malaysianpaygap Nego high; walk away if it's not; always start from 60%, walkaway 1 when TA's say your asking is not 'market rate', you determine your value 1 8 Company hired me to create a good social media presence to get positive 1 pectirienewhbireaalasiehat Gasopaigns could Company X do to connect with 1 Malaysians online. Sounds fun right? it was! @malaysianpaygap Its a new unit, and was the first and only member of the social media unit under the Projects department: was 1 happy because i got the creativity freedom and actually had a superior with the same passion in social media as me. She supported me throughly 1 ancCon pany XOnterctalgoediabarderad great engagement: Everything was so 8 perfect: QAQC Engineer; Manufacturing industry, Salary RM2.Sk Location: Shah Alam Female , 29, Malay Qualification: Bachelor Degree, 3 years experience No of employee less than 50. 8 Company profit hit millions every A SME company in Manufacturing industry: Been working for almost 3 years. Starting salary RM2.2k with 6 months probation. After probation, increase in less than 10%, RM2380. After 1 year; no Salzegmerease atf tesidthan200%k. 1 Current salary RM2530 without OT or allowance. Working hour 8 hourslday but may change due to situation. lam definitely taken for granted as am not only been doing the Quality job. am even ask to go for site visit, a safety coordinator; attend the testing or year: Not sure will go from here on and are taking some steps back and slow down in life to figure out what | really want beyond the unsustainable hustling culture: 5 My advice to others out there is: "always keep an open mind to learn : new things knowledge gained is yours to keep no matter where you go_  8 And perhaps can also take some advices from people here whom 2 have walked similar paths who knows might get enlightened with an "a-hal" moment from one of your comments? Senior Sales Engineer 27/Male/Malay Experience 3 yearst+ 8 Location Klang Valley Degree in Mechanical Engineering 0x~Currently Salary MYR4200 0 0 started my career as Sales Engineer in my first company with MYR28O0 as Fresh Grad. Jump after 3++ Years experience. Now getting 4200. My advice for those out there, if you wants to good currenesalaryoo cheencerviewer;, 1 instated stating your expected salary: If required, lied about your current salary (the amount should be close to the expected salary about 15-20%). slip supposed to be P&C, do not give to anyone: get Pay Working in IT industry; really do require hardwork in upksilling and getting certifications on your own time. Need to be relevant and always upskill yourself to the industry's fast changeeverycoyrenstoreetirnologdo 1 feel like I'm too late at this_ As much as a career being important in to me; to enjoy your hard earned money for your ownself is also 8 important; as well as spending time with family and loved ones. After all, what is the reason you work, if not to increase your quality of life right? So do not only focus on the number on the payslip that you missed out on other and life in verall. @malaysianpaygap 1 wish everyone the best, and keep sharing your experience and salary so that Malaysians know better and fight! life , feel that; influencer marketing specialists are paid extremely low for eheetienceard geptiegs Cigbed oet by 1 influencers and celebrities if clients don't like the content that they come up with: We're the babysitter; the middle man, copvidefeecicriptocier ererhe 7 assistant: all rolled up into one. betineiyg argicrer undeepaid than us 1 marketeers  Project Manager; Rm5ooo Location: Work from home, KL 1 Eleltrzcalrecigineering/ 5 years working experience SME consultancy company with around 15 employees received a 10% Increment in early 2023 1 working hours around 8-9 hours per Monday to Fridays day: mostly work with overseas clients although started out and learned from local gigs. There isn't enough demand or budget in Malaysia for the type of illustrations enjoy SO finding and reaching out to clients online is an integral part of my job. To be hired, you don't necessarily need a large social {nedioroloboug oarogueafective 1 work and showing it to the right people who need that type of work. Word of mouth helps, I've gotten jobs from both my art- related as well as non-art-related networks. Ipass on jobs to other illustrators regularly and many of my peers do the same: doing, However; there are downsides like need to work long hours as well as it is stamina and mentally depleting: 1 Tasks will kept coming in the moment you open the shop and we do not always have friendly customers to deal with: Being in leading position, you cannot show your emotions in front of 8 subordinates as you will affect team morale_  Junior Radiographer; Healthcare 22, Malay; Male S 4 months Selangor Diploma Current salary: RM29OO So far love my current workplace The workload is divided fairly senioradiogrepre gthee very 1 friendly and kind to me_ A very positive work culture: We always leave work on time (for office hour schedule). If there's a lot of patients, we stay back and finish our work together; then go home immediately. It doesn't matter the "At 32,the last business that started with my wife failed She was pregnant at the time; and my firstborn was barely a year old. We were under tremendous financial pressure: Several months behind on our mortgage; debt collectors kept calling; red letters in the mailbox; 1 had no idea how | was going to pay for the hospital bills for my new baby: graduated with a degree in bachelors of medicine and bachelors of surgery; and have been working in Australia 1 since graduation: Started off as an intern in a metro hospital, followed by a few years as a resident and registrar across various metro hospitals in various states, and have since been employed as an independent 1 heattactoe terrcvide services for a @malaysianpaygap Career progression 1 Resident-yedrnonthRreronth pre tax Registrar year 1-4- 10k-12k/ month pre tax Currently- independent contractor- 30-40k/ month pre tax In a non Big4 context; it may be mundane as that's all you'Il do: tepong Depeidigg omedia" ltensyou 1 are required to present in management meetings and Board level committees. You'Il need to address the root cause, and not a 8 quick fix. Do not limit your vision and understanding to just fixing the issues, you must always align to the business 3 @malaysianpaygap and cyber landscape (e.g- implementing new techlenvironments) as things will change over time: Certifications i.e. what to choose?! 1 won't comment much,; it's a good to have. But truthfully, some of the best I've worked with in the industry don't even have it. Again, your mileage will 8 vary: SO do your own reading on this. Event _ Diccnrd dta , web vlunteers are `i it For altrwishc PWpose +o Something g0d to fellow Molayridns MpG'$ gyowth has taken the time ,energy an efFor+ Crator' $ Owo #oo _ Eves truly hurt by the en & every &9! The MPG_team has_atfracted_Io0z Well meanng talentS. We're_in a environment +0 uphob while having to monefize Some e arty Of # 10 support  operations It's also 10 Possible For MpG to In with crowd-Sourced mpg i You, You wan AJy an have d Soy i the nformation @tput Reabty give rom Ie Jobs key 9ood Randing oo 6. We're nothing without health Always put yourself first. If you sick, rest. Work never finish: Listen to your body: It's okay to say No when you can't anymore. It's okay to walk away until ur ready Do health check every year; knew someone in his late 20s that found out he got cancer get Thoughts: Just like anyone else out there, I'm working in a non- degree related field: I believe many of uS can relate with this. think food science is very under appreciated in msia and they pay uS peanuts (internship was way worse): But I'm also grateful for that because I've found passion in 0 working as a medical sales rep because we face different 1 challenges even though what we do on a daily basis may be routinal: find joy in speaking to people with professions such as 8 surgeons, radiographers, cardiologists etc because you get to learn so much from them: I'm a shy person myself and never have thought I'd be doing sales as a job after graduating, guess you'Il never know once you give yourself a little push in lifel Tax Manager 12 years experience, various industry Chinese Male RM18,500 Degree, Prof Paper and MBA KL Spent 5 years in a Big 4. 4 Subsequent years in MNCs: 1 Tough at beginning during early years to build a solid knowledge and experience base, long working hours including weekends faving good Yexiblewroertite 1 balance with rarity to work past 6pm, and good career trajectory: Advice to newer accountants: hang in there, your base solid first and get into a particular specialization that the market is looking for: There's many areas in Tax which is high in demand and Companies sought after: get Procurement Engineer Manufacturing Industry 28 Female Chinese 3.5 years RM4,300 Degree everyoredurifryghe ipandernic: 1 With the ongoing supply chain issue due to lockdown, 1 sharketedeveropecsoulcy potential warfares, reduced crops yield etc, the situation will not be improving within short period of time I'd just hope that those companies 0 that had been making profits, would appreciate the workforce by giving a better employees' benefits and increments. Not asking for a lot, but at least on par with the inflation rate. Title: Senior Associate , management consulting at Big4 firm peevoofs lxwetfieaothea big4 for 0 about 2.5 years and with the current big 4 for about 3 months now = total almost 3 years exp 2 Salary: Rm5.3k (inc benefits) Im happy with the salary, but I'm really struggling with the stress: have to go client's place which is a 0 1hour drive and reach at 9am, work until maybe 9pm with little breaks in between and come back home almost I1pm and there's still work to do. If we the OT hours put Been working for 3 months above and the environment is quite good as the senior will guide you all the way: faced paced job as the company high quality standard for the clients. Honestly; ive never been happier to be involved as site engineer as learned a lot. Worked from monday to saturday 1 from 8am-Spm: You will most likely work up until Spm and no ot will be pay: @malaysianpaygap Ive seen a lot of fresh Civil engineers pay are a bit low from the standards 6 which should be not more than Rm2.Sk was very sad when apply almost 300 plus applications from jobstreet but with no Hr call especially from the company that want.Most of the time the company that get offer less than Rmzk which is very low: Very Ode 0f teams 90t Ubreteui The happiest 70 1 -PRESed oniy PIN ONE PINA LIMA YMm_ #e Winning Fom Tiva 13.05.2023 brana juice Pineaeele Nog Coid malaysia Yueyl Civil Engineer (Consultant) 3 25 years old Chinese Male 1 year experience Rusteoo 0 1 The construction industry is the oldest industry in the world and the most rigged industry in Malaysia: Engineers are grossly underpaid for the number of responsibilities they need to take 1 The risklreward ratio is just not there. And it's not that employers can't afford to pay; can, just that they don't want to. 1 they gave me a chance when tried to transition from graphic designing to copywriting: 1 didn't have a rich portfolio, just articles that wrote for a single site as a freelancer; and | didn't have a sterling English: Yet; 1 beeauge Gorhething have beeand improving myself to match their standard:. Over the past year, my salary has increased three times from RM2800 to RM35OO. They they Also, let me tell you as an Abg in the industry: Most of us expect to be recogniised and 8 handsomely just for working X length of time. 1 have seen the adiks being quiet in meetings, 2 8 don't have opinions, passive, and stagnant: Maybe in gov, you will be appreciated for your time in 02 service_ In most industries, it is about the value you created: If you think you are good at your job just because you have practised for 5 years, come better technology Cs and a fresh can reach your level in a matter if months paid grad 3 Many colleagues to refer: Each of them is assigned to different industry: You can learn different approaches to solve the pest issues: @malaysianpaygap 4. directors and managers are willing to guide me even though / 1 reallefocogblethorsolttionisrethehey than blaming you: 5. The technical reporting is systematic and organized: 6. Leading innovations which outstand in this industry: My Primary school tutor at a daycare tuition centre with over 100 branches nationwide 23, Chinese, female on off for 6 years, mostly part time 0 Goeeas my degree in psych 2 0 within these 6 years working hours: 0830-1845 Current salary: RM2.3k before deducting EPF SOCSO Started working here right after 3 SPM and received RMI.8klmonth back then for daycareltutor: Now pay more for tutor >RM2.3k whereas daycare teachers are still getting RMI.8k: they Customer Service Executive Insurance 3.3+k Big city in Negeri Sembilan nearly 30 female Chinese Bohelor Degree in Management 5.10 1 I've been in this field for my first job, and still it's my first job. All states has our branch. Salary raised 5% yearly but changed to base on performance since 2018. (No increment/bonus during 2021). Job scope is to handle all walk in agents and customers, to help on their inquiries and solve their 1 issues, escalate the issues to our PIC_ Sometimes will get stress easily if you met a fussy customer: Job: service crew Industry: F&B Salary: RM9 per hour 8 Location: selangor Gender; age, race: Female , 18, Chinese Qualification: SPM @malaysianpaygap Hi, I'm actually here to seek for helpl 1 advice. I'm a fresh graduate from high school: | don't have the ability to continue my studies any further: This is my first job, and this is my fourth month of working: Our company is 2 small and short on people; my boss required me to work 8 hours for 4 days and 11 hours for 2 days (54 hours per week): My duties are Since our judging panel is from digital marketing; e-commerce, retail and fmcg background: We strongly suggest those interested in these sectors to applyl It'sa game show but who knows, you might impress so much and get some job leadsin the endl was not only in-charge of accounting job (full set account) But also i'm the one who processing & approve loan to the borrower which already falls outside from accounting scope because believe that's under Rton 1 Not to mention. There's a lot of ad-hoc tasks where sometimes have to draft SPA contracts, Letter of Offer; Letter of Acceptance etc: That's definitely outside from my expertise. The job really took a toll on my 8 mental health because I'm fully in charge of the company finances & now its on audit seasoned. @malaysianpaygap submission was annoynmous and condensed 308 But S0 WHAT I've since open up about 70 touch points on my own with more in my Pipeline. Just this week 15/8 was told by my boss that management wants 1 to cut my pay: The justification behind this is that 1) they want to have a standardized pay for sales team 2) they more salesperson to be more commission driven @malaysianpaygap 1 F've met and infact exceeded all targets given to me. 1 believe |'ve justified my pay: Tried to talk to my boss on if there'S a way around this, for management to allow me to maintain my pay and set higher 3 reasonable targets for me but the decision has been made and not up for consideration. 1 sleareery OPGI tHaughtwaa wanted to experience with you so here we gol @malaysianpaygap Job: Independent Contractorl Software Engineer Industry: Tech Salary: $50/hour Location: US Remote Gender; age, race: Female, 28, Malay 1 Degrecationlyesryearexeereeiece hey Apart from that; in industry usually you only get to perform the same experiment technique by fine-tuning different conditions. It's more tech based & you only focus on the same 1 shipgliteecausadetailcyjdagarostic labs/ hospitals: Important thing: MIVI-M2V2 Important organization/terms you want to know: NPRA, MDA, FDA, CE, GMP; cGMP; ISO15189, ISO13485 1 Prospects: Researcher;  Regulatory affairs, QC, QA, application specialist, microbiologist; MLT, clinical research associate may F've noticed there are many available vacancies in cybersecurity; especially 0 in the Malaysian market. It's a sign because companies in sectors like banking, aviation, telecommunications, and automotive have started to realize the importance of cybersecurity: And it won't stop there. There will be more vacancies in 1 the future as companies continue to digitalize their businesses and need someone to protect their digital assets and to comply with the cybersecurity 8 regulatory: emalaysianpaygap good There are heaps of knowledge to learn in order to prepare for this position, but aren't other jobs the same too? My target now is to pass the probation which will give me a 10% increment. Im satisfied with this job as it gives me a lot of flexibility, despite not having colleagues to chit chat to, but accept whatever that pays the bills! Coontract position (30 days' notice 8 required from employerlemployee for termination) Unlike their permanent positions, there are no paid leaves, no perks Remote work is not for everyonel Pro gossips = more time spent on 1 work = higher productivity Annual income still 2x my previous jobs even after taking into account the yearly bonus No micromanagement Work from anywherel My kids can still come home to me after their half at school, don't have to spend extra on daycare; no need to spend 1-2 hours on the road travelling to work: day Pharmacist; retail, 6K Johor F; 28, Bpharm Start-up company Increments from 2.6k to 4k with company A, then job hopped to 1 company B at 5k, then now 6k with current company 45 hours per week I'm a valuable asset as I'm the one with more experience compared to others Happy with my job bcs I'm adaptable to new environment Malay As a freelancer | got paid well, cause was paid in USD, but the projects you wouldn't come in consistently so there were certain times when | don't SME compahy awasoffcei fockinoikeras 1 well for my full time job, (don't want to add in too much details cause its irrelevant) , but it's boring so | still prefer doing translation as my side hustle, which had more passion on: somehow then landed my resume on 9 this job posting, which in the job posting it did write that no qualifications needed, unlike those other jobs who pay you 1.5k yet still requires a degree LOL. At first didn't have much hopes on it, then the interviewer approached me and asked language teroughhichhobeeeeot &if of 1 them, then somehow got hired just like that: A 4.9k job for me. Wow: get @MALAYSIANPAYGAP Project Engineer in Food manufacturing Industry; 27, Chinese 1.5years Undergraduate Degree 1 3300 As an executive level permanent staff; we doesn't entitled for OT pay; only replacement leave will be given: But it's only entitled for someone who work more than 1 4hours extra in a even if we work for extra 3.5hours, our replacement leave application will be rejected: Most recent increment was just RM1OO, 5.5days work a week: Male, day, 4. How's a day in your work like? How many hours do you work in a day? Is it stable every month? It's totally dependent on what projects have_some days don't draw at all and just read or do research for pieces I'm working on, other days might be drawing for 7-8 hours, and other days might spend 2-3 hours communicating with clients via emails or doing admin paperwork: 1 also make sure to build in naps and daydreaming time into my work as that's when | get ideas__it's hard to be creative if 're always tired and overworked: Some weeks might work every in order to finish up a project; if that happens; I'Il take a week or more off to rest and recharge. That's a perk of freelancing and also a benefit of taking fewer jobs that pay more, as opposed to many loW-paying jobs: day you' day Normally; each caregiver is assigned to care for patients as the carer at their home and/or hospital. We work shift hrs, normally divided to 12hr day and night shifts, according to 1 requeasienwve raecoenallymeeded when the family member is not able to be with the patient at the hospital or at home This work exposes us to certain 4 risks, such as being hit by an aggressive patient and exposure to bodily fluids. Also risks in relation to the patient, such as fall accidents, injury and choking: It is a shared 1 worry among uS of any implications that may be imposed towards any of us if an accident happens: iTS Mine Now malaysianpaygap; I have a question to ask: Let's say the company mistakenly overpaid your salary last month; are we allowed to refuse to return the extra amount to the company according to the employment act? Hey "Life's always full of surprises: Turns out that mum left us with a pot of money from insurance paid out, that was enough to pay for all the medical debts OR to pay for my first year overseas fees: family took a leap of faith; and trusted me with that money, they believed it's only going to be good for the family long term: BUT Im the only one responsible to sort out my second and final years; and any living costs that incurred: This is where the "gambling" of my life happens; it's all-in or all-outl" My Graphic Designer 32, Chinese, Female 10 years experience Dipoma 1 ] Current salary: RM3.6k After graduating college, my starting salary was RMIk. Wanted to work in a design studio instead expertence thereiwasore many 1 design studios in Sabah at that time (even until today) so stayed on in this current company: gain Assistant Plantation Manager Private Company Agriculture Industry 3 Oil Palm Estate 3 years 25 Y.O Basic Salary: RM3,600 Allowance: RM5OO Last Year Bonus: >Smonths (varies yearly depends on CPO price) 1 Started with basic of RM2,600 with initial feelings of first" attitude to join as a planter: There's lot of knowledge to be learn in oil plam plantation where its field works mainly segregate into 3 major events: 1.) Harvesting 2.) Weeding 3.) Replanting: As long as you are firm I enough and hunger to lead a huge quantity of inferiors, U will be the "queen" in the estate , where the "king" is still the estate manager Exp. "try Heyyyyyl I got a 36% increment from my next employer: Thank you for creating this page. All those sharing 1 cering tndenteeviee adenegotiaeion. @malaysianpaygap 25 NOV, 07.34 Hehe thanks! took online courses that are related to my current role and updated the certifications on Linkedln: think that's what caught the recruiters' attention: Several recruiters 1 reached out to me and | spoke to all of them even though may not be interested in the role offer; gauged my "market value and only applied for one of the roles. they Session I: 3-4pm Formal picture, yes or no? Is it necessary to include references on a resume? How far back in time can a job or position be listed on a resume? aware of the limitations of ATS and their relevance What are some of the things on a resume that are the most pointless? do | write the best summary or biography? How do write & resume for 4 career change without any prior relevant experience? to address career gaps? How to include self-learning skills? Should the progress or rating embedded within? How to update your resume effectively while working Opinions on resume builders, CGPAs, and companies' lack of response Session prize: 3 X winners for resume reviews (to be completed within 3-7 days) Being How How joined the bank since | graduated and recently being promoted, with nearly 30% increments given that have always exceeding my KPI with good quality work. To be honest, one of my initial plan for 2023 was changing a new job: 1 enVoohetents e_BJorkisncoexplore to different and wider in AML and working in SG always in my mind: However; with the recent salary increment. It makes me wonder should stay in the current company 1 and look for opportunities internally-Does RM4.6K well compensated. Any advice ? Business Development 30. Malay: Female E commerce 1 7 years KL 4500 + comm 1 realize there is always a difference of salary between me and my bestfriend with different rentorforaieedesoaetineed inees earn 1 higher than me just because of their race_ This is my first job after graduating from Uni. My starting salary was RM28k, working days are 5 and half days: A little background regarding this company I'm working for This company actually started off as a rather small SME, but the owner (my boss) ventured and invested heavily in selling on Lazada, Shopee, and other various e-commerce platforms: probably just joined at the right time 8 and was very involved with all the development; procurement and Tooxkegirg gete stedDanE makebly j sometime next year: Slowly over the years, my salary toctre seorkrowaRivakeo RMvectee I course Of MCO (2020 & 2021), the company in the range of 200-300%. salary increased from 8 RMAK to RMZK and recently bumped to RMIOk with the position of E- commerce & Sales Manager: My boss is not stingy when it comes to retaining talent. For this, am very grateful. But /'d say in lots of work and effort, and till now I'm still single , no time manl grew My put 3 To all at home moms out there, you are not alone, time pass quickly; everything gets better and 3 better: And to all daddys, PLEASE treat your wife with your best; they have given all of them for you and the child/children. And kids, please respect your parents, they are  buenieg themselves to give 1 you stay Job: Senior R&D Executive (Food & Beverage Industry) MNC 31, Malay; Female 5 years working experienced 8 Based in KL Master's degree Current salary: RM5OOO per month (Including allowance) 1 Bonus: 2 monthst+ 8 1 started my career journey a bit late because need to focus on my postgraduate study: After everything was done, have decided to join food industry and 8 never regret it. As a R&D person, basically Im working in the lab where need to develop and innovate food formulation for our customers: How to become a marine engineer? 1. Get a Diploma in Marine Engineering at ALAM, Politeknik Ungku Omar; Sarawak Maritime Academy; UniKL, MIMET. 2. Get that 12 months seatime as an 1 engine cadet and work your way up the ranks. It's a rewarding career with the right mindset and goals. Chief engineers earn up to RMGOK/ 1 month after conversion of course. In Malaysia a chief engineer can earn up to RM4Ok a month: So tell me, why wouldn't you? Or you can opt to going into the deck department on your way to becoming a ship's Captain.  Genceegioala, Ecochireese Manager 4 years of working experience Salary pre tax-I1K to 15K depends on work travel schedule 1 Osteopath Male, Chinese, 25 6 months Based in KL Professional Certification & DOMP Diploma in Osteopathic Manipulation 1 RM 10000 ++ 0 Before graduating, had started helping people with osteopathy and collect customers base. So after graduated, have a mature customer base, and better experience in adjusting people's bone: I'm appointment based, SO my time is flexible , I can do whatever want if didn't arrange Public Relation Executive 29, Indian, Female 3 and 1/2 years experience Kuala Lumpur Bachelor in Communication (Public Relation) RM27OO pordergitetariece becreure if 7 the salary is up to the range, but also im in dilemma if should take a new job with higher salary but the environment, and things might be fast paced and to work around the clock. Most PR agency need own transport; and im fully using public transport. Increment: Job hopped 4 times last 6 years, salary grew from 7.5k to 13k. sadly that's the way to grow your salary in this country Am | happy: Not 100% but happier than most people: have good work life balance and well for my 1 hard works. For those who wish to convert to UX: if you a former graphic designer like me, it's easier la: Just need to learn a new software and processes: If you non designer; there's plenty of 6 important roles in UX team too: UX researcher and UX writer: Explore them, pick one that you like the most. would love to consult young designers who love to convert; please DM me on Discord_ paid NEEd YOU hi there. just wanted some help here, basically about salary- I've an offer for assistant, procurement under well known company in KL: but the basic offer me is about RM175O no OT (my current salary RM1SOO) . fyi, have to relocate from Terengganu to KL and have to rent my own room/house: They don't offer any other benefit except for medical: do you think can survive? Advice,.. got they This pandemic was the reason | quit everything for my baby; wasn't dare to send her to any daycare centre or any babysitting 3 nanny: 'Working' hours are 7days 2OhrstIday dad will help out awhile during night time so at least can have few hours of 3 sleep. During "work time" there's no any tea time, lunch time or even pee time you only to them done ASAP because your little one is always looking for you, not a single alone me-time with your phone: Not to mention 1 all house chores and cooking meals: It melts your heart whenever your child smiles or calls you mommy; but deep down in my heart really missed my normal videographer life. thing, get get The perks on a ship, | don't pay electric bills, don't pay rent, food is free (we have chefs), our accomodations are air-conditioned and we have heated water for showers. We get to travel to places we've never been: Meet people. It's a good job for saving money (if you know how to), there's WiFi on most ships, satellite phones to call home_ 1 The cons: it can be very exhausting, mentally draining, you have to be someone who loves fixing and solving problems, someone with mechanical skills, far away from loved ones. Missing important events (weddings; child birth, birthdays) . So what do do on a ship? |'m a 1 second engineer; I'm in charge of the main engines, major machineries, management of the engineering department and assisting the chief engineer to manage the department: am a team leader to 3 guys under me sometimes 4 guys: am to ensure the ships is in operational and safe condition at all times. many things Service Engineer; Medical Diagnostics: 35, Native Sabahan; M 7 yearst in current job since Kota Kinabalu, Sabah: Bach: Mech: Eng: 8k++ (all pre-deduction) 0 Ik additional allowance (on average, depending number of outstation trips and OTs)  The company that I'm working in is a MNC and I'm attached to its bhianch fabahCoreederagtheapay 1 is relatively good but with less chances of promotion. Still stuck in the same position for years, whereas those who joined later than me but is attached to the head office gained promotion in 3 years time. grad. in, MPGHITS LYEARQLD TODAY FlST DOST ON FEB 22, 2022 actually wanted to join an MNC at first; but there weren't much openings for me, maybe due to where graduated from? don't know: joined this company because the starting 8 pay was quite alright and really needed a job at that time. 7 From what have experienced, a heartfelt message to fresh graduates, don't just look into the fame of joining MNCs. Working in SMEs are the real eexeoekce You anhotlearvecom 1 product development; marketing, procurement and more. These are the 8 lessons you will bring with you, should you want to climb higher next time. from MSc). Another additional strength was the advantage of multi- langualism (which is the superpower of Malaysians ) Iwent to chinese school during my primary; so i am 1 proficient in chinese, malay and english. Ialso took Korean language level 1 during my uni; although it doesnt really help in my current job but it makes my resume looks much better Since im a foreigner; my company also settle Foreign Working Permit for me, which i only need to 1 provide docs to my HR, and will responsible for the annual renewal for me_ they Session II: 4-Spm Covering: One column or two columns? The value of a cover letter The preferred format for hiring managers How can someone build a resume without any work experience? Do employers prefer a resume that is entirely written out or one that includes graphics and color? The biggest resume writing errors Should personal projects be listed on a resume? Should there be two resumes if you're applying for two different jobs? Opinions on the video resume Applying into a different industry; how do | highlight my strengths? Session prize: 3 X winners for Linkedln profile reviews (to be completed within 3-7 days) A-Level results turned out wasnt great; | lost my chances in securing form of scholarships: [ thought that's it, | won't make it anymore, will just settle down with any wage paying job to help lessen the familys financial burden:" "My any Job Penetration Tester Ethical Hacker Industry Cybersecurity Company Age 25 Male Location Klang Valley Salary RM 5000 Qualification Degree in Computer Science, 2 years experiences in J Shemh B ny hAtandcupanyaer ! 1 graduate from local Uni: My first company is Fin-tech company in KL. pay me RM 3.2k as fresh graduates: Then after a year; i jump to second company(current) . My current company is just a startup company: The work culture here is fully working from home. | can work anytime and anywhere as long as 1 delivered the task. The increment here is around Rm 2OO/year but it depends on your KPI. Some of us higher than that: They get As a student; if the rmlS/hr rate is met then it is sufficient pay: We can only work on weekends, holidays and semester breaks, therefore we earn at best RM36O/weekend, assuming it is RMIS/hr pay and 2x 12hr shifts in a weekend: The normal rate is RMIS/hr; it can 1 becorrie &s low as RMIO/hr if the agentlindividualnursing home who assign us the job asks for a commision which take each hr we work: The jobscope includes cleaning 4 bodily waste/changing diapers, bathing patient, feeding, grooming, walking, lifting patient and more: 95% of the time the patient is old and bedridden: This job can be 1 tough at times when the patient does not cooperate or is difficult to be cared for(obese, mentally disabled) . If the patient is cooperative, the job is fairly easy: they 5. What are some of your favourite tools to work with? How much have you invested into it? It's difficult to say how much; since | didn't purchase all of my tools at once but rather slowly over the years when could afford them: For digital work have an old Cintiq drawing tablet; for drawing traditionally use ink and good watercolour paper: The best investments |'ve made have been in terms of education, not equipment: taking illustration workshops or mentorships online with professionals and making connections there; going to illustration festivals and art events; books and online guides: In the long run these have paid back many times what cost, in terms of friendships and jobs gained: they Culinary Lecturer; private college 27 Malay+chinese/Perak Location: Perak 5 years experience as a chef; fine - dining Degree in Culinary Arts Management Salary: RM2.Ik back in the industry, 1 jumped to education line with starting point of RM2.8k after probation period. To be honest, have this mindset where being a lecturer is quite a smooth-like-a-butter kind of job. But after this jump in education 1 think most of the lecturers out there 1 are underpaid: With the workload to keep up with the accreditation, student's problems and bunch of other miscellaneous stuff; dont think for those who's still in the industry should jump to education line unless its a good pay and proper work-life balance. line , well was a content writer for a training department previously and never had any marketing experience to joining current position. By the way, Im currently serving 2 months notice to take another leap to be a full time content creator which have slowly built a foundation for since April 2021. It's itsot more bat 'niprevinanceap 1 position where could do this: know a lot of people romanticized taking big leap in life but be smart with your finance, make sure your mental health is in check, always have a plan and take calculated risks: prior Annual basic salary progression: Ist job rm13 per hour 2nd job rm38400 (no bonus) 0 3rd job rm46800 (approx 50k with bonus) 4th job rm65000 (approx 75k with bonus) Sth job rm81800 (approx 94k with bonus) Current rm9ooo0 (variable bonus) 1 It has been a great journey so far and I'm content here. Company perks and culture is amazing: No intention whatsoever to in the foreseeable future: 6 Thanks MPG for everything you do  hop Giving birth to a new baby + spending a lot of money on his hospitalisation fees have prompted me to look for remote jobs. Entries on MPG have been very encouraging and since spend most of my time at home idling, might as well monetise it. My employer is an MNC. In terms of 8 company size, cannot comment on that as it seems to partner with a lot of corporations: My job scope involves overseeing part of the process of immigration apgtorateogervitcethethe legasiceCtor s I need to answer queries and assist customers in applying for their PR. Clients are mostly research students My master's degree was research based so it helps a lot in this job: Grammar is an important aspect so my editing role also came in handy (in fact, passing the grammar test actually landed me the job interview) . know your opinion on this whether it is better to accept the job offer or not: Current Job:- Designation: Technical Support 1 Sypa; Perien (include allowance) Annual Leave: 19 days Pro: Work Life Balance Cons: No career growth and learning development New Offer [ Salign iaGoOntel Engineer Type: Contract Annual Leave: 12 days Advantage: Can learn the indepth skill and it is growing demand in the market  May Conservationist Conservation, NGO Selangor; Male 25 years old Wage:RM25OO Experience:1 year This field is fun for those who love wildlife and environment: Burn out 1 foresceakcoroogot Jusreetirs te people from different backgrounds, share knowledge, experience and collaborations. Can really see your works being put into action in saving our world: The best part is you to travel to many places just to learn while connecting with nature got get Once you're in the cybersecurity field, you cannot stop learning and need to 0 evovingt Thegood techgologakeres more you know; the more valuable you will become. Be a specialist and excel in your chosen area: Don't become a jack of all trades but a master of none. Once you decide which area you want 1 to specialize in, pursue a professional certificate. For an ethical hacking certificate, 1 suggest obtaining one from OffSec because their exams are 8 more practical and hands-on-based. @malaysianpaygap Hi, malaysianpaygap. Would like to 0 share my experience with others Job: Comm & Client Servicing Exec Age: 26 Working experience: 3 years cb Salary: @malaysianpaygap 4.5k MYR exclude allowance & other benefits Salary history: - 1 1 Fecondrcoapanysk SkMYR 1 BTW anyone here working in the bioinformatics field? |'m interested in the field and would be happy if can hear some advices. Hope this helps! 1 quite Pay cut is 60% off my current pay: Im in a real conundrum as to what to do_ 1 don't want to leave as the potential to earn here is huge on the 1 commission. Also the fact that gel with my boss so it's easier to work: If I do leave then have to start over at a new place and hopefully get a good boss/team: Based off my current commitments, I'm not able to cope 1 with the pay cut: Comms will be non existent as foresee it'Il take me about 3 months to build local clientele up. What do | do? @malaysianpaygap Open to advicelrecommendations and offers 3 Thanks MPG for the amazing platform! Most of the pest control companies in Malaysia are SME. Hence, would like to share the difference between MNC and SME. @malaysianpaygap Pros joining MNC: 1. Solely focus on technical role. 1 {uliteaskig Youstomee sesvgced to be operations; sales etc.)_ 2. A very good exposure. Im fortunate to be assigned to pharmaceutical clients where the standardslrequirements are high: After you conquer this, others is like a kacang to you: putih Part-time cafe service crew, currently looking for full-time 28 plovinese Chinese Female 8 per hour: RM 8 Worked for 2 months 1/2 so far Location: PJ Bachelor of Laws (Hons), LLB 7 from a UK university 1 For those who are trying to secure a full-time position but temporarily work a humble job, hey, you're not alonel The pay we in the f&b 8 isn't a lot for what we do- Setbacks and failures in my life had led me to work at a cafe at this interim: There are many bright and educated people actually working humble jobs as such and 2 you'Il never know until you ask them: It's understandable that it's Pay get Again, Im a fresh graduate with no one guiding me Figuring out and seeking external helps is how able to maintained the job. On the bright side, able to tremendous of knowledge but the low salary income make me feel super unmotivated: J Sod1eoneharotheothanageraement 1 purposely didn't hire the finance manager up to 3 months (the longest in comp history vacancies in FM) bcs I'm able to keep track of the finances: Looking for advice: 8 1) should quit 2) Stay & asked for better payment (& how much is considered ok of increment in my case) gain Assistant Manager Rm16o0 pre epf + SOCSO cuts etc ) Private Company Male 23 Malaysia Spm undergraduate. 4years of work experiences. This is not one of those amazing stories you've seen before but rather Oeceayoy naVobshighee Gaucaterher 1 not worked at this company for almost Zyears until i've recently resigned in 2022. It was a private company owned by joined ventured owners When i started this job was starting with the basic pay of rm12O0. Only after a year of working there did my I salary increase to rm1300. The job was too much: when i started working there i was in a different department and had only one job scope But as months go by _ due to other employees leaving the company; those who are left still working are to do different types of areas of work: May you want to be good for being proactive and a problem solver: Thinking and management skills are way more important: | tell you ah that industry has lots of problem: Don't just watch; be part 8 of the solution. You will either be recognised by your current firm or you have something to goreng at 8 8 interview to another company: Malaysian firms cannot pay you enough because most have problems in creating valuable products and services. If the 02 paoleeompanot geraaywhere: You want to be paid more, you have to step up. Be visible. Solve Cs problem. Biarlah people say that you are being used: It eans you are useful: Sell yourself as a valuable product to the highest bidder However; have a of buying a landed house as an investment, and Im not sure if my salary is enough for that: As someone who is reaching 30, feel like should have a higher price tag: Iam willing to take on more significant responsibilities if there are any: Unfortunately; | don't think my 1 Soiapamatanvanoviceheenorenhe (it's a start up). Currently; I'm considering switching to content creation or marketing positions; but my lack of proper experience is making it challenging to secure a job_ goal we Ofteq 4p Oline Jccoss +imezones  n3 Fz8 ! at 40Wbi Avgap W 3n9 cio Alowat Thanks Team! meet m38451 Finaly Raa ant Operations Manager in Market Research 29, Chinese, Male Currently employed less than 1 month, had 6 years working experience in this industry KL Diploma RM7240 (including RM1OO parking 8 and RM14O travel allowance) 1 was working as office boy in my first job with RMI,1OO salary in year 2013. Requested RM1,500 as per the market rate at the time but the boss refused because he said | do not have I experience, hence have no rights to ask for market salary: Being a fresh grad, accepted the offer despite ting1onthabecoreonovirgkeco tevents 1 industry: < worked in events industry for (3 months in 1 company and 8 months in another company) and decided that the industry isn't for me because of the toxic environment: My friend then introduced me to market research industry and never looked back: year decided to be patient and found out this company are willing to accept fresh graduate Basically this company pay more than a lot of local company which is great. To all those civil engineers graduate,there are a lot of 1 opportunities out there which can give you a good start in your career: take on this is be patient and always know your standard: We all can be grateful if we landed a job but for engineering, | strictly agree we should 6 be more viewed as a good career spot especially in paying a good amount f salary: @malaysianpaygap Thank you admin! Hope this helps to anyone out there My Hey MPG, seems like not much Big 4 news here, so trying to share my thoughts and experience Job: Senior level 3 Assistant Manager Supervisor 1 Industry: Professional firm (Big 4) Gender: Female, 26 Qualification: Degree in Accounting (ACCA membership) Gross salary: RMZkt+ (+ fixed m allowance of RM35O) Working hours: 8 hours a day, 5 4 days per week (in contract) , more than 12 hours a day, 6 days per week (in practice) The reason that got into iOS development is because during my internship was tasked with iOS related task, and after the internship ended they saw that i've shown 1 deeidedito (eg deveccomentheiduhioy iOS dev from there on. @malaysianpaygap My advice for all the mobile devsl 8 engineers, the more u help ur peers/ colleagues; the stronger and more knowledgeable u're going to they get Pav Range OF GRADuATE DROGRAM In MALAYSIA Disclaimer: The information is shared collectively by community members to the best of their abilities: Despite MalaysianPAYGAP's best research efforts; accuracy cannot be guaranteed: Please use the information at your own risk Optometrist; Retails, 3.6k Non Klang Valley (Medium End Market) M Malay 24 Registered Optometrist with MOC <1 year experience Started my first job with 3.2k in a well known optical company in Malaysia. Reeigre d afeerthieberivironeriect Their 1 treatments to a freshmen was a bit unfair in my opinion: Why healthier environment? Working in retails industry for hours (12hrs) really tires your body and mind: Therefore, seek for a better companion in a job at my workplace than amount of sales or others: long Solutioo 1) MPG td be 100 /; Community funded No as 1 events might g by ticke etioqandi5e" Tere might be ise . Donation dri ve 2) MpG to accpt as anl mnenize Rom companies but with cleacSop that the content ig valuable for th Community) N 0 hord sell !J 3) Community trusts MpG to do Whatever is the best In Com witb 3) MPG Publishes tronsparent Spe S Ywr_Choice 2A bination nding What Nowadays, there are a lot more structured learning (free and paid): such as virtual labs (TryHackMe, HackTheBox) and professional EesiicatsCp (eptCtaryoctical 1 pursue (price may be steep for fresh grads, but maybe a worthwhile investment as it is a gatekeeperl preferred). @malaysianpaygap 8 What do need to do as a pentester? This is honestly rolelfirm dependent: In Big4, 're expected to multirole and do other things within 3 domain (risk assessments, strategy; etc) : If you join a startupMSSPI boutique firm you're role may be more dedicated to really just doing PT. Nevertheless, 'Il need a lot of understanding of threat & vulnerability 1 management (it's not just "oh hacked you your defense sucks") , research (new vulnerabilities, testing methods, exploits) , reading (cyber incidences, threat intelligence) , and end-to-end 8 understanding of the applsystem tested in scope  you'1 cyber you'| Hiring budget is always bigger than raiselpromotion budget; always! Don't need to be a work slave for underpaid employers More salary = more stress No nego no increase 5. Know your worth and limits In a nutshell, working in a gig economy sector is not an ideal choice. But need to do it because time is passing by; life is getting shorter and future is coming on. Every night before I go to sleep, hope that will have the power to carry on the jobs and survive till 1 the chance to have steady flow of income and permanent job like used to dream when was a little kid. Picturing me with a nice nice house and great family with a smile carved on my face. And that is my definition of a good life_ get car; Regional Legal Advisor MNC , FMCG industry 29 Malay Female 3 years PQE Kuala Lumpur LLB from IIUM, Malaysia 1 Salary: MYR 7o00/month Company is based in UK 1 0 Pros: 1. Good work life balance [If you work hard during office hours eg: 1 8.30am-5.3Opm with 3Omins lunch + prayers] No emails on offs bcs work culture is very good. 2 Transitioning to hybrid working now but even before pandemic, we can always WFH on Friday if no F2F meeting: 1 3. Good managers and ample online internal training options to improve ourselves: day 1 The above is given as a range as salary depends on the amount of overtime, rostered weekend, and night shifts (as all these attract penalty rates and will affect income) Average working hours as a 1 gover hoent fectorinighsthowever u may rostered overtime; overall the hours here are much better compared 1 [Oshad WOeaca ridiclaaysinoursere KKM, and lots of unpaid overtime. @malaysianpaygap get "One defining day took place at a mamak in TTDI: We ordered couple of rotis, and some teh tarik perhaps When | up to pay the bill: The cash 'register came up to RMI7 and change 1 opened up my wallet and | had RM7.SO. I told my wife that was going next door to the ATM for some cash: The ATM showed that had less than RMIO in my bank account: The minimum withdrawal amount was RMIO, So | can't even take what little I had out of the machine: couldn't even afford an RMI7 meal, and had to borrow money from my pregnant wife to pay for the meal: | signed up to become a rideshare driver the next got day: Analyst at a banking institution: 29. Malay: Male. 3 years in current job: exeeriencvear bankangorking 1 Kuala Lumpur Master's degree in Finance. Current salary: RMZ1OO basic 1 (RM8875 including bonus) would love to hear how much other financial analysts make in their current job, especially those ceraifievtiorotechiosaFA as am 1 currently pursuing it and would like to know the prospect for my salary increment once | obtain the CFA charter: just recently found out somehow it 3 has been changed to "invitation only" -2022. v Go to their career website, check on the date for open day for Malaysia: ~submit your resume Inteiieorsonaiy iakeatiode now, there 1 are a few rounds: @malaysianpaygap Group discussion Arm reach test Group discussion English test 1 Then 1-1 interview Hope this helps 1 day Umm have a very supportive boyfriend and he made me realize my worth and the value | actually brought to a lot of my previous companies so started to believe in myself more and now to exercise this "I know my worth" mindset at work actually was in the design field so 1 that actually helped me abit in my job as bosses tend to want someone more tech savvy? So have an extra value with me wherever go. My advice is to not be afraid to say what's on your mind: I think nowadays in Malaysia, companies do take alot of tantec andoJoe" Ghoor ehougfor 1 appreciation to the employees: do hope companies appreciate employees that work hard for them because hard workers or good employees tend to leave when feel not appreciated and burned out while the ones get to enjoy: good try they lazy Fortunate to be in a position now where can be selective, not work to the point of burnout; and still pay the bills: Because I'm self- employed, it helped to budget + keep overhead costs low and learn how to avoid projects where wouldn't be respected (low pay, unrealots Oencroenanagfngadiva 1 cooks in the kitchen): The more said no to crappy projects so that could say yes to good gigs, the more the second kind of work: But it took some years of learning the hard way to realise that. got Job: Junior Game Developer (fully wfh) Salary: 3.7k Gender; Age, Race: Male, 24, Chinese Years of experience: Iyear; 6months in this company S Company size: About 200 people Company Nature of Business: Medial Advertising quit my previous company after 0 considering it for a very long time, this is due to the fact that was repeatedly reminded by my family and friends that "you're just a fresh grad, be grateful that you have a job in the midst of a pandemic" etc: mean, they are not wrong, Im just 6months in; enoployotteing, who would want to 1 Previous company changed management; all the seniors left and the tasks are split amongst us newbies; from 11 software developers to just 3 associate developers, on a project that's more than 6months behind schedule: To say I'm giving my 200% is an understatement. Discord Stage OurS 3115_(Wed) Better 8-9pm SIA Msians in SG Kopitiam SBOUTNCORH This is absurd and hate when 1 0people are misusing the Islamic teaching; just to save their arse. In 0 the first place, they did not understand the whole point of 3 rezeki and sedekah as it is. *need to do financial management 1 Tips for all: Don't feel down if your salary is low compared to others: Of course it is encouraged to find a better job if you are underpaid but most importantly you are happy with it, as main income is the priority: Savings comes next, 0 make sure you can save up some 1 money for investmentlother purpose: Learn investment while you are young, (or startup small business as another source of income) , of course this does not guarantee you to "earn" Starting young will expose you to more 8 chances & failures; learn from it and believe me, you will success one day! FEB 25, 2:07 PM Male @malaysianpaygap 25 Years Old Left job after 3 months was working as a Pupil (trainee lawyer) in a 10 law firm in Kuala Lumpur: The pay was 2.3k with no Socso, 3 EPF or EIS: Was working up to 2-3am regularly and over the weekends_ Was berated constantly by lawyers which led me to quit: Top The video managed to work with the influencer garnered almost 1200 transactions within 14 days and still getting tractions to this day: The start up company then offered me a full time positiona5G*stok of sbioooy 1 They offered SGD 3500. Currently lead the influencer marketing team: g0 crrotegh anglend O.OPCEOs have to 1 And |'ve only been with this start up company for 10 months now? 6 months as a part timer and 4 as a 1 full timer: And they are jumping to Series B soon, and we're promised another salary raise as soon as everything is cleared out. Everyone is very supportive of each other and working together virtually: To be honest, met my team members only 2 times per week, that's quite ok 1 for someone timid and introverted as me. INFP-T here. Ilearn a lot during my time here as my peers and manager is very supportive of me to further study and take study leave etc @malaysianpaygap Someone also told me that you must 8 practice attending for interviews at least once per year; to ensure your communication and interview skills are always being sharpen: At the same time when you update your resume every year; 'Il notice all your 1 achievements, and also the areas where you are lacking, so you can make some initiatives to get better: you' am very fortunate to be given the opportunity to learn grow within the company itself without needing to hop and perhaps the mindset of 5 willing to dollearn more beyond my job scope also helped to land me where am today: : Icome from a very poor family and relied mostly on PTPTN  scholarships during my university 8 years sO focused really really hard on my career especially in the early middle stage where can spend upwards to 70-80 hours per week 2 just working with only one objective in mind: MONEY. (nowadays it has been reduced to a more healthy balance of 45-55 hourslweek) 8 Little deets about me, was a 1 fheejobceheeeordeyetang-anteeds aind help small businesses manage their 1 social media accounts. also worked in a company that paid me 3k pre tax but resigned after a few months due to the crazy workload 1 with no rest days at all. (This would be another story to tell) @malaysianpaygap Ok: Buckle up guys, this is gonna be a 1 [eamgneecoyo.f inpucurrenig situatan. plan on my next venture: 8 2024 FIRST SELE INVESTMTENT DAY 1 RM95 DAY 2 RM95 2-DAY BUNDLE RM150 2-DAY BUNDLE t MERCH RM280 (limited edition t-shirt pins) USE COUPON CODES TO GET 10% OFF LIMITED QUANTITIES, CHECK THE BOTTOM OF Malavsian REGISTRATION PAGE Pavgap @malaysianpaygap Working for 2years here have been a great journey for me; from working as an L1 engineer towards where am 1 now: The main thing | appreciate working in this company is that everyone will always work together to achieve the target set; regardless how tough and hard the process is. Some people may find it too stressful but if you think in another perspective, 2 working at your limit will always push you to a higher level where you discover your capabilities further: ~ Key highlight in me breaking out of my industry: ~ 1 1 started Ty career in sales but didn't have the grit and thick skin to grind: | was extremely unhappy and was desperate to leave but found it difficult cause of my lack of exp and poor uni results saved for a 4 months runway to stop working and 1 fully focus on getting a job, turned out to be 9 months Thank you Grab and Uber at that time for supplementing 1 me with part time work. Title: Music Teacher Field: Music/ Education Gender; Age, Race: Female, 24, Chinese Salary: ~6k 1 Location: Selangor 1 Qualification: Bachelors (Hons) in Music Experience: 4 yrs, started as part- time piano teacher work as a full-time in a music 1 centre, and part-time at an international school. Average working hour: 8-9 hours/ day, 7 daysl week 8 Radio Station Sound Engineer Bukit Jalil Female, 26 this year 3 years in this company Working hours: Mon-Fri 8 hours 1 A degree graduate, started in this company in 2019 end of August, 3 months contract, RM1S an hour. Got permanent position in December; gross pay RM25OO. 8 paid Plus,; most commercial gyms rely on sales from Personal Training Packages and you only maybe 40-50% of the cut: In order to make RM1O,OOO, you'd need to do 200 sessions per month There's only so much time in a Left a year after and started my own coaching company: used to work 6x days a week 1 between 7-8 hours but now only work Sx days a week between 3-4 hours and spend 1-2 hours doing admin work for my own coaching company during the weekend: cwachingybloingefacovtia-Cacre &nd hit 1 the fitness industry like a tsunami: had zero-income for the entire period: AlI had in my bank account was RMS,OO0. heard about Online Coaching through my peers and decided to give it a try: Since was already doing face - to-face, how difficult can it be? get day: Data Scientist; RM7OOO 27 yo, Female Master's Degree, 1yr experience Based in Kelantan 1 MNC Tobacco  Data is a future. Lets dig in came from an engineering background who convert to data My average working hours is 6 per 1 submitted before for pay gap, but just want to update since have a new increment with 50% +++ from RM35OO Malay day, got achieve higher career level is to promote as a Team Lead, but the role is very limited: In order to obtain 1 better life quality, am searching for opportunities that are able to offer me RMssoO/month as am only earning around RMAZOO/month: As you know; MNC does not offer good increment every year and | even heard that our company may not able to offer us increment in the upcoming performance review: Since the opportunity to promote is very rare and there are not many 7 same oamerfieldjesouthineregvithiwvttch my career path: Should get a Master Degree of Data Science and switch my career path?  DAY2 Damai Studio & Cafe, Jan 21 Kuala Lumpur x2 Masterclass x2 Workshop led by industry- effective tools professionalsl Breathwork I01: Calm; Cool, Intentional Journaling for 2024 Collected Deep Release through Art of Communication: How Soundbath to Talk Nicely When The Situation Isn't x2 Support Circle No Hangry release & attract all day Intention Setting 2024 Ticket comes with plant - Im Burntout; SOSI based meal & drink from Wholey Wonder Job position Feature Writer Industry Newspaper Age 29 Race Bumiputera Gender Female Yoaation yearawak 1 Academic Qualification Diploma Current Salary RM 1,600 Writing is a stressful job. It really depend on your mood: To make matter worse, handle everything by myself: That means, am the one who finds the stories, assign them myself; 1 conduct an interview or research, and then write them. Thankfully, am not the one who edits them: As a feature writer; write in-depth on my subject: make sure to include research background and historical facts when necessary: My article is 1 usually above 800 words, limiting it at 1,200 words: do this 3 times a week, aside from interviewing my subjects. But anything else, just spend whatever with the expenses money have for the month: If by half way; seemed to have spent a lot, I'Il cut down any further expensive spendings (mainly food like fine dining/dessertslalcohol for me And use credit cards whenever can for any spendings to get the rebates/discounts But always make sure have enough in my bank account to pay it back by 1 end of the month so there's never really a debt but still get the 1 helpefibuid myrereciescoredor easier loans in the future. would say this requires a lot of self discipline. So if you are the kind 1 that tends to overspend, highly avoid getting a credit card until you can discipline yourself (literally means control & doubt Always question yourself if buying it actually brings any positives into your life or is buying something equivalent in function but cheaper in price would do the same. @dshutlosokt self self S iam a lawyer myself; recently left practice for an inhouse position 1 1 about a month ago. General counsel. 35 years old female malay: with RM2OK monthly pay check 1 Chill 0r BREAK Senior 1, Auditor 24, Chinese Female Almost 3 years One of the Big 4 ACCA RM4750 (Include allowance but does not include expenses claims) We work a lot and OT till 3-4am during peak. It's even worst to have rude clients, bad managers and if your family don't 1 Socleetitaed feel ryouentorheaeh 1 deteriorates when have to handle all parties at the same time. Especially wfh, it's hard to guide and have to spend time to clean my juniors working papers. To be honest, are we auditors underpaid? when the partners managers earn SO much, but there are times where we can't even claim our expenses being given the reason 'the audit fee for this engagement is low' your We cover for GPs, pharmacies as well as private medical centres, with different teams: GP, chain pharmacies and medical centre. 8 As of currently am catering for GP; private pharmacy and soon medical centre as am building our presence 8 in this that |am based in: Career insights: 1 actually enjoyed what am doing as myself have Biomedical Science background with an interest in 1 pharmacology And seeing stuff that learnt about being used in practice is definitely an interesting experience because learn something new everyday from the doctors that met. city Sound Designer; Game Industry, RM14k per month+Revenue Bonus Location: WFH Male , 27, Chinese 2 years of experience as a Sound Designer  Sweden Indie Game Company Work Hours: 40 hours per week 1 yOheyoficing cJoecoreyereedaed ben report progress in Friday's meeting:) Benefit: Included EPF; SOSCO, International Insurance (Medical, Travel and etc:) 25 days holiday, sick leave 8 Fm quite happy with the job. The working environment is pretty nice. fly the whole team into Sweden once per year in the summer to hang out on the west coast. The company will pay for flight and accommodation for everyone. day paid paid They Government Dentist 27/Chinese/Female 2 years of working RM 4400 after deduction) Most Malaysian dentists 1 1 graduated at the age of 24 started working by the age of 25 considered late compared to other professions Please don't be surprised our basic pay is only RM1279 and the rest are 1 allowance. We have no yearly bonus pay and very little annual increment of as low as RM125 Hi MPG adminl Job: Auditor at Big 4 Age, gender and race: 25, Female , Malay @malaysianpaygap Education: BSc Accounting and Finance; ACCA currently pursuing 1 Experience: 2 years of experience Current salary: SGD4,700 RMISk Current location: Singapore Previous salary: RM3,800 Previous location: Petaling Jaya wouldn't be able to make this 3 salary if worked in the local creative industry: At least not in house (freelance would be hit or miss too)_ I started off as an offline editor and over the years just kept teaching myself animation both in 2D and 3D. The best way for an editor to grow in this line of work is to make yourself so valuable that if you thevewouid haverto arce3opeople 7 to replace you (but still fight for a wage that you feel you deserve for your skillset and time): they Litigation Lawyer; Law 29, Chinese, Male 6 years in practice Petaling Jaya Degree 1 1 Current Salary: 6,600.00 gross have been given conflicting views as to whether am paid above the market rate as a lawyer in the Klang Valley: This amount 1 however does not commensurate with the amount of work required especially for those working in small firms: A lawyer in a small firm ordinarily has to wear many If you're in a job that you don't like 1 and want a change in job scopel industry; employers won't consider if you don't have the right skill sets. Go and learn a thing or two from the free courses available on Coursera, Linkedln learning etc. @malaysianpaygap It may be academic learning instead of 0 hands-on experience but it shows the employer your motivation and drive to develop the right skill sets for your upcoming role. 1-sentence workplace lesson of the month: Find solution, not focus on who to blame. If you willingly accept to work long hours without +pay; you may be the reason why the team is understaff Clarity is everything: Always ask WHY: share with limit but don't be selfish: UIJUX Designer 25, Chinese, Female 2.5 years Bachelor Degree Kuala Lumpur Current Salary: Rm7o00 nett 9 before epf deduction 7 This industry is highly rewarding but because of the lucrative salary alot of people are hoping onto the banaysagokingte iudust esigners 1 but employers are overly picky and juniors are often rejected, but worry not; study and learn more with materials online and polish your portfolio. Observing top tier apps and software applications is the key: exhibition / event coordinator 3 for MICE industry which stands for Meeting; Incentive, Conventions and Exhibition: 29, malay; female 7 years 1 KL Diploma stuckartRG39K Rue SKCardnow 1 era Dim Sum Chef Male Chinese /KL 32 ylo 14years experience No any degree or diploma cert Start after secondary school graduated 1 5.5k basic + minimum 2k Plakseason like Chinese New 1 Year gross salary can up to 1Okt+ Normally 9 hours a 6 days working day a week Work at one of the biggest food chain in KL. day: TalentCorp Hudamtaen Group Of companies WOMEN CAREER CONVENTION SECOND EDITION 2023 VIRTUAL JOB FAIR OLIVE Website Live Date 21 October 2023 21 & 22 October 2023 Convention Facebook Live: Saturday & Sunday TalentCorpMsia Register before 18 October 2023 wwwwomencareerconvention.com FREE PARTICIPATION TalentCorpMsia www.talentcorpcommy Digital Marketing Manager; e- commerce 25, Female 2 years experience in DM 1 Multinational Tech Company 7 Salary 6.5k (excluding medical 0~#benefits) When landed this job, it was my 1 proudest career achievement: To earn that much at my age was a 1 dream come true_ But all of it came crashing down when the job expectation and work load was far beyond what had imagined:. Anxiety and depression crept in very quickly: Malay; 0 fintech product manager &meche, 1 3 Always calculate how many years you can achieve the salary that you are offered in the current company: If they counter offer you less, just leave. For IT industry; there are alot of 1 job opportunities with high pay 1 salary and you can also find remote jobs for part time which pay in USDEuros. Know your worth: Always ask 1 salary worth your skills. A good company will always negotiate your salary if they think you are worth hiring: Hate the fact that we have to launch this. went to Akademi Laut Malaysia (ALAM) after high school. The fees was expensive, but now even more. Fortpaatelyo whenpgraoreatec, {ocal 1 started serving them since 2014 as a 3rd Officer: In 2016 ventured to a foreign company; thanks to my friend who introduced me. The pay scale was obviously higher; that's the reason | switched company: In this foreign company; | gained a lot of experiences and made sure 0 perform well every ship | go to. Work with passion and keep learning, that made me climbed my career fast: There is different between European MNC and China MNC . 8 European are more into benefits and work life balance while China are more into SS$. Currently I'm in the Chinese one. Advice to you: 8 both MNC , no harms 1 started in this industry as fresh grad 18 years ago after diploma, getting MYR 1250, and became the youngest Manager in APAC at age of 23. Owh ya, just got promoted [ on Monday and transfer to others country; expected to a raise to USD 17.5K ++. Try Ultimate Ltst 0f 7.95 CoMpanies in 13.9% Total Submission Malavsia With 757 Go000d PERKS 76.5* Bv Malavsianpavgap 250 Empdiee: = nicte 80 (0 249 eMplogees 10 {0 49 cmploytes Avnoe Hanoress Inder [uJn Comoensation Salittacticn Index Avenne Rotentian Incer 3.6 3.5 3.3 6.97 7.53 30.59 29.69 19,69 33.628 18,3% 25,63 42.97 29.616 Y4b989# melunhh Company Company Size Other Perks & Benefits Happiness Compensation Score Satisfaction Score "eail" 250 employees 0r more Orsled 250 employees 0 mofe In onice every desk i$ adjustab < standing dest_ there are treadmills; ellipiicals and stationery Kes You can pull to your des" and ercense while working Irez ipnone 13/15 Min ior each eMdioyee psa(xboxtwiionall oiice icors ioosdall resiareas wilh bean bags, shower tooms on each ioor fully equpped nursery roors advanced silent prool phone booth  and many more unitech 50 {0 249 employees Nothing su"way 250 emplorees or more Never Work trom home throughout wnole MCO even tncugh there $ positive cases ultcare among employees also never Kork from home 0r saniize Ihe olfice Just ask Ihem (0 quarntine and wc continuc {0 work_ Neve; eocial distance in ofice Everycne still back to office t0 work cause Is under essenlial sennce And perfarmance gcod; bonus Keam month Pencmmance nol Ocod cul bonus Va and this I> chat pnaldt' 437 personally regret studying nursing, especially taking a Bachelor Degree instead of studying Software Engineering or Data Science. The 1 basic is quite high (especially if you work in KV or big hospital) , but dont think will be earing too much after 10 or more years unlike other profesion as nurse is not considered 6 as "Kumpulan Professional" but more like as a "Kumpulan Sokongan" eventhough you have a degree: NEED VOUR Technician 33 years old Malay Diploma in electrical dan ada sijil kemahiran yang lain 9 years ecperience in technical industry Rm19o0 per month if U want more U need to do overtime Suami dari keluarga sederhana: Dahulukan adik adik untuk degree husbnd cannot continue degree sebb duit epf dah habis untuk bayar pengajian sijil dan diploma: Tengok suami kerja dari pagi sampai malam mmg remuk hati untuk dapat gaji sebegitu but we have to redha sebb bila nak lompat company lain mereka bagi basic lebih rm50 sahaja dari gaji sekarang dengn alasan tiada degree_ Sampai sekarang tak faham kenapa majikan tak nak pandang langsung staff yang ada skill in electrical and nak bayar lebih kalau staff boleh datangkan benefit pada syarikat_ Sedih sebb mmg kenal suami kalau kerja macam mana dia mmg anggap kerja as part of his ibadah. Semoga Dimurahkan rezeki suami saya supaya semua keluarda can get benefit from it. Ikhlas dari isteri technician tersakiti Advice , my 2nd quarter 2021, handed my resignation letter to serve National Immunization Programme (Covid-19 Vaccination) since the pay is very 1 which offers me 4x of my salary at that time (freelance, unsecured job) . main intention was to find a new environment, networks and experiences. Long story short; my boss wants me to work for the clinic again early 2022 and they offered me 1 a RM6OO increment, converted my first resignation as unpaid leave  accepted for 2 months, and | handed my 2nd resignation letter: They offers salary of RM3OOO and need to be a PIC for one of their clinic, working 1 hours increased to 10 hrslday instead of current 9 hrs. 1 made my mind and declined for good. @malaysianpaygap good My Hi Admin Senior Geologist; Oil n Gas Industry 29, Female, Chinese 1yr 10 months 8 Rural Area, Sarawak Master Degree Current Salary: 5k (without ] deduction) Good exposure for those fresh grad/youngsters who are keen in hikinglwish to explore more on gehezarataseeskeencmonthly), 1 you are welcome to join this field) _ However; not recommended to do this job for long term (>3 yrs) that might your knees n joints. A traveller life that required you to travel between rural area-city monthly for work routine. But, this is a fast paced company which requires you to do a lot of work with tight deadlines (no worries, your managers will keep asking you whether you're okay or not and this culture is applicable to all 1 departments *verified by other interns from other departments*) Aside from this, Ican say that the people culture here is superb and am glad that choose this company: @malaysianpaygap As stand here today, a 28-year-old Chinese male with a decade of experience in the property industry, 0 can proudly say that my passion has rewarded me with more than just a comfortable life. It has given me the 1 freedom to make my own choices and live life on my terms: @malaysianpaygap when people question why chose the property industry over a conventional career; smile and tell them that it's my passion, my driving 0 8 forecowned toyeaeizeothaasccescisess. not just about money or societal expectations-_it's about doing what you love, no matter what others say: So, it's a win-win situation. This is just 1 1 way; i've many other way to deliver work without actually working . @malaysianpaygap To close this; i don't have much advise other than don't be like me_ Ihave 0 interest with my work, 0 concreate skill other than maybe talk c*ck Ialso not sure how long can play with the system. Despite earning on higher end 1 even for SG level, i don't feel much satisfaction while seeing other write code while just pretend: Graphic Designer Last position Art Director for a design agency: Bachelor honours degree in visual communications 31 Chinese Male 7 years working experience in 1 various agencies 1 (Started work since 2014) Last salary: RM4.2k before deduction 2nd month out freelancing and working on personal projects_ 1 Close to matching my last pay with time to think Gave up climbing the ladder: Reason for stopping is pay not enough and no time to build on more income streams: work as computer-aided drug design expert for pharmaceutical industry: After completing my PhD in university and research institute, manage to get 3 the offer from pharma industry: work with supercomputer; looking for drugslvaccine for particular diseases: 1 can easily do remote work. had a lot of time to travel, spent for family and no overtime is needed. @malaysianpaygap 1 get out from academia life and quite 1 enjoying research in industry: We produce real products and discuss in team: Job: Schoolteacher Industry: Education Salary: RM56OO + RMI1OO allowance Male, 37, Indian BSc Chemical Technology/Diploma in Education (major: Science, minor: English) Years of experience: 12 Company size: school with ~2000 1 students Company type: Government school Increment history: 220 yearly for eight years then currently 250 yearly Average working hours: 5 hrs/day Do think am a valuable asset to the deparamenNminisevagedino the 0 parentslstudents Am happy in my job: Yes for what no for salary Am | leading a team: Yes, 8 people Does my current salary match the market salary?: Sadly yes and that's the sad reality of the Malaysian market do, Mp6 | Career Talks taaNG-TASV No MORE June 2 , 2022 (Thu) 8-9: 30PM MalaysianPAYGAP Discord (MPG Stage) How a Malaysian landed his foot in the biggest global companies: Geospatial digitizer; Shah Alam Female, Chinese, 24 Bachelor of marine science Salary RM2.Sk (without EPF deduction) Joined this company as an internship candidate in of last year: Getting learned a lot of geospatial and GIS 1 technique in this area (got basic GIS skill in University). Luckily get the offer within 1 month after internship. This position is responsible on the geospatial data analysis and digitizing: Friendly staff; good workspace: Sometimes we hv pot luck, jamuan: geospatia?andtereeled wanted to 1 develop my skills in that area. But now; am not longer want to contribute myself in this sector: Office work routine, sitting in an Aircon workspace; always put my eyes on the laptop. Aug Account Manager; IT company Age: 30 years old Location: KL Sex: female Working experience: 6 years Dalaree: psychology & management 1 2k > 2.5k > 3k> 3.5k > 4.5k have been in the IT industry for about 6 years now: | started working in my Ist company with a starting salary of 2k and left after 2 years with a salary of 2.5k that was in Penang: At the time as a fresh grad assumed that was the I pay back in 2014. | tht job and | landed a job in a BPO company still holding an IT background job and still in account managing and my pay was 3k base and me 80%base 2o%commission moving to KL. quit they paid Insurance Agent (Manager) 40, C, Male Around RM2O-4oklmth Degree in Electronic Engineering actually turned my part-time job 01c? fuldvrnsurbece w89 wayeors 1 supplement my income, but my self-competing tendency allowed insutranteneratreparigbrly/y job L back then as a robotic engineer was dull. I'm happy and proud to be able to give my children the opportunities didn't have as a 1 kid, especially when it comes to a good education. Every time hear "Daddy, want_,' it's my honour to be able to give. We Malaysians have plenty of space to exercise kindness and generosity: BenderaPutih campaign that happened not long ago proved we have such space and urge to extend assistance. Isit a good sign that we gotta step in to help always? Is it a good sign that we have to hustle so hard with multiple jobs all at once to hope for quality of life? Is it a good sign that we drool over job opportunities abroad? why So | experienced lots of racial discrimination in our country when applying for jobs after graduating: Waited almost 11 months (jobless) 1 for an offer in Malaysia. Did not one. So applied all over the world and just within a month received a call to work in Singapore as Material planner: It's not in line with engineering but there's lots to learn in the field of supply chain: tried to 1 pick up some company offered courses to learn better and gotten professional certification in supply chain management. The team work with is all over the world. Only a few in sg Lots of coordination work. do not think my salary matches the 1 market range for my years of experience. But what do you guys think ?? get C promoted as fast the Sales & Marketing team: Are support team just a side dish that company 3 disregards about their staff welfare? How do improve myself further in terms of career advancement; higher compensation and good benefits? Should proceed to take ACCA or other professional certificates to 1 aeVcbetter Suatcoyoer cpareesestories especially in accounting and finance. Thank you: 6 your 1 However; the business was not quite well: The company laid me off in October 2022. I got depressed, overwhelmed because got many interviews and none of them get back to me. But didn't give up, kept on looking: went for an interview at this 1 one company in Damansara and they offered me as a Senior Data Analyst: accepted the offer: started my new job on Ist November: It was quite far from me and need to travel with MRTI LRTIbus, but it's fine. Survival mode @malaysianpaygap 1 We go to the 'field' (Ampang Park, Taipan, Starling Mall, everywherel) and we pay the transport by ourself; on a daily basis. And we are broke 8 bcs of this This company despises and downgrade whoever is working 9-5 83 jobs. They'd make fun of 9-5 working people and will crack jokes and laugh about em: They basically hate em: But they themselves work from 8.30 AM 6.30 PM, and that 8 doesn't include the night workshops: 1 used to come at 8.15 AM and go back Ilish PM on a daily  basis. There is a constant need to over perform and push yourself to the limit as operate in a fairly small team for my client and i have to handle and service more than 6 projects/campaigns at a time (which is considered normal in the ad world for account evergoee ertheugehscytbonstantly 1 works around the clock-creating pressure for myself to and keep up and show that im putting in the work. Work-life balance is unsurprisingly non-existent and all-nighters are common for some 8 (especially our creatives) , and the level of responsibility i'm given can often times wear on my mental health as feel i'm too inexperienced to handle the pressure. try Doing home tuition almost every 1 evening: This is something that really love doing: Once my tuition income is as much as my preschool pay; Im planning to resign: @malaysianpaygap Would appreciate some advice or guide. Should ask for INCREMENT or just resign? 1 Kindergarten pay is so underrated in Malaysial lower grade employee. So decided to just leave my comfort zone and come to the private clinic setting: Bosses here are very appreciative of your work, 8 performance and talent Within 1 year of time in the private settings, my salary rose from Rm6ooo to RM1O,OOO depending on my profit per month)_ In conclusion, never be intimated by the fears or what-ifs in your life. Pecyisjo Goddefoce thekieciycon is 1 made, work your very best to show what you are capable of: Hard works pay off: And may that 1% of luck be on your side intimidated Pray @MALAYSIANPAYGAP Principal Consultant, 40, Chinese RrintizoooT industry 1 started out in technical support at 2.1k back in 2004. Stayed in tech support and customer service teams until 2017. Went into presales about 5 years ago which did not have any 1 experience on and took a slight paycut for it: Then built it from there to where am now: Slow but painful journey; but /'d say don't be afraid to try a different path 3 even if we're just employees: Also tbh did came late everyday and 1 thats the only way for to rebel against them: | admit that its cowardly and passive-agressive on my part: Honestly did told the boss abt the problems with the shop and the staffs but he played safe and told me to solve them myself: did tell him that as an Intern, am comparable to a kindergartener in terms of corporate 1 Gorddd hieeal arngtaf resigneadiogt know about office politics and hOw to conquer them: In the end he (the boss) still dont want to help me. Oh hello emotional avoidance, the tough love of the boomers! @malaysianpaygap "Tam 36,a Bachelor of Accounting now earning only RM4K despite with 12 years of working experiences, and that's okay: For years; was once earning over RMTk in a MNC. When I broke down uncontrollably in front of my team and tears just flowed as | rode home, I knew something wasn't right" Are you happy in your job? Heck yeah, love it. we have an office but last time was there was a week ag0 cause needed to sort out my laptop; but before that it was like 2 months ago can also work from anywhere (globally) if choose 1 as long as the team is informed: The trust is on a different level. The reason why this job appealed so much to me is cause of the transparency; it was my first ever to engage with a HR that responds immediately to my question about budget range of the job position (she said 5.5-7.5k depending on the 1 eotninge /5eviotls Deyeans os experience, note that am only earning 5.8k with about 5YoE, so to me that's fair and the transparency is important)  to, 8 Senior Product Executive (Biotechnology) ayeadiaxpeeieate ] Kuala Lumpur 1 BSc (Genetics & Molecular Biology) Currently pursuing MBA Basic: RM6,100.00 Fixed allowance: RM 745.00 Additional allowance available for outstation business trips: 1 1 Job: Early Childhood Teacherl Caretaker 31 Gender: Female Status: Married Qualification: Bachelor Degree (Hons:) from IPTA 1 Basic: RMZK (No epflsocso) Working Hour: Monday to Friday 7.30am to 6pm daily, no OT paid. Saturday 8.45am to Ipm  Location: Johor 1 Age: Junior Veterinarian, RM3900 pre tax (include allowance) Private small animal clinic Selangor Female, 26, Chinese S Veterinary degree, 1 year+ experience Average working hours per week 55 hours (often do a lot of OT but without OT pay) , working 6 days a week. Entitled AL 10 Came out to work soon after stadeat6ih With yealary-oe1chol, 1 increased to current rate after probation; have not gotten my increment Bonus received one month's pay: Am required to work on weekends and public holidays. think the current rate and working conditions are the general standard for small animal junior practitioners in selangor; do correct me if I'm wrong: paid days yet: Benefits: -500000/10 During the interview process of getting this job, I was promised that this job comes with commission for every sale we manage to hit: Sadly, scammed huhu: For example, managed to secure MORE THAN 1.5mil in sales during quarter 1 and the "commission" received for this sale was less than 0.5%. This is 1 aeking abortedonmicsioFcnandon"t other things WFH is basically non- existent and during MC we are expected to work. Oh ya, because of this company is "Family & Friends" oriented, these people always get a free pass in doing whatever they want: Bak kata orang melayu "memilih bulu" huhu: got @malaysianpaygap submission was annoynmous and condensed 308 But S0 WHAT A BA role in IT is always looked as supporting role as IT is only an enabler where the core role is the business user itself. Some benefits/bonus are less in direcolytibringncoreyao tedont 1 company: | once wished to be in business user role, and once accepted such offer: Only in few months already felt drained due to repetitive work nature. then switched back to BA role as enjoy the variety of projects] systems/tech / got exposed arakeloldeg everyitferent embark 1 on new projects. It diversifies my experience and makes me versatile as an individual: to, resigned this job. had a few breakdowns because truly loved working at the preschool and miss the children: left the job but still can't over it. 1 can't get over the fact 1 that worked so hard here, in so much effort but when left the management treated me as if nothing 1 tiaregebecnohativoicereoutakeny @malaysianpaygap wanted to shed light and my experience in this It's disheartening to 1 observe that despite our qualifications and dedication, preschool teachers often find themselves underpaid: get put Came back to Malaysia as a Project Manager; with 7.5k salary: Moved to a MNC after project completion: Joined a regional position at 8.4k. Headhunted into another MNC after 2 years: Jumped with salary leap of 10.5k. ptacobappcecateo plel 9telary 1 1 increment twice in 2 years: Current last drawn 15k Jumping jobs is not a crime. Know you are jumping: Have a good justification why you do it and be ready to defend your actions in job interviews Staying in a place 1 where you are happy and not appreciated will not you far: A good boss will always know your worth and a good working environment will always make you grow: why not bring For example, when first joined | automstionsdinaiinazkeeriggldrip 1 campaigns etc. Now am also the go to person who handles all of our ad platforms, making sure run profitably and generate results. 0 In all honestly, took up this job 4 because was looking to move back to Malaysia, | graduated from a local university here and loved the culture, food & people. 1 always wanted to come back sO after like applying for 1000+ jobs, toaniagedito land this one; thanks 1 they work as telemarketer in the morning earning ard RM5.3k and drive at night, at the same time pursuing master degree in a local uni to further inc the chances of being promoted/higher increments or better offer: | wonder how's other salesl marketing earnings like out there whateer gettistouldreatiyoreamhan 1 only earn up to 6.5-7.5k at max as if work 18/19 hour daily including sat and sun by driving after my working: Can anyone in the similar field or the admin please give your advice if should or look for better offer to accommodate my monthly commitment please? I'm major in psychology (also doing my 8 master's in psychology currently) and minor in sales, thanks in advancel =) grab grab stay Job: Junior Software Developer 1 Bio: 24 ylo, Chinese, Female Qualification: TARUC, RSD Experience: Started my career in May 2021 Basic: RM 8,300 + RM 500 (lifestyle allowance) Location: KL Company: MNC (IT Services & Consultancy) 1 Way ofveorking: Hybrid (2-3 days Way departments from Marketing, Busdoing bete/perfertance now 1 Marketing and Corporate Marketing: 1 have been asking for 0an increment but due to COVID-19 company has been giving reasons that company isn't doing well for a year plus: Iam just wondering based on my work experiences and dual role what should be my market value? 1 1 Job: in house counsel Salary: 6,000 excluding allowances Gender; age, race: Female, 24, malay Qualificationslyear of experience: LLB hons (1 year experience) 1 0 Senior Quantity Surveyor 1 37 years old 0 13 years of experience Basic Salary RM 5,000 Based in Sarawak 1 We educators play a vital role in shaping the early development of children, setting a strong foundation for the children's future learning: However; the compensation we 1 segeiteatterofoesmorktlend the responsibilities we shoulder: 1 As Preschool teachers, we invest our time, energy; and expertise in providing quality education, fostering emotional growth; and ensuring a safe 1 and nurturing environment for young learners. Isn't it crucial that our efforts are recognized and fairly compensated? 30/MChinese Job: software engineer Gross salary: 9000 Location: KL 1 Qualification Bachelor degree in computer science Years of experience: 5 years Company type: MNC Wondering it is low for my experience? Mostly working as 1 backend developer + some minor frontend task:  It is need to be full stack developer in order to achieve higher salary? skills BA needs to have are communications, resourceful, agility to adapt change, and fast- feairsing 9capabaftyowitbehsought 1 after by many employers: If you J want to climb up faster; my advise is to start in consulting environment: see there are a lot of opportunities in BA role as you 8 can wear any hats that you wish to if you know how to position yourself: peersie areisearketate agai/broad 1 spectrum of an IT BA: Key Expediting Specialist, Oil & Gas company 24, Female, Malay 1 year Selangor  Current Salary: MYR 5,700 monthly 1 Joined this MNC company less than a year ago, as a fresh grad: No history of increment yet since not even a year: Here to break the stereotype and for our people to know their worth. Do not settle for the less. have received many great offers from big international companies upon finishing my 1 perieelbrbecbose tbeliere the environment is great: Very happy working here due to great diversity and culture. Very work life balanced, flexible working: Yes, great company that does not discriminate do exist. care + tuition teacher (Year 2020) Ipoh, Perak 20 ylo 8 female Chinese STPM Graduate RM 1100/ month 8 Allowance for fetching students RM1O Just wanna share my bad experience with the employer (the boss and his wife). The job description briefed was 1 totally different from the reality: Briefed: Working from 1Oam to 7pm Reality: 1Oam to 8pm Day As a short background, am currently living in KL with my parents, and am the breadwinner of my family since my parents are no longer working: I've been working as 1 yeracuoerient ES6E Corrganst 3 located in KL City Centre and here's a brief of my experiencelreview of working here: Closing the deal is fun. Working environment is so good but "no life" lucrative pay but sometimes, seerorenoutarnore Yoe work; | everyday is workday, even on offdayslpublic holidaylweekends] i J need to attend clients. and a lot of paperwork: i love my job but the com rate is super low to be compared with other company: RWegogisaCORIlYeagh but 1 rewarding: i realize that there are a lot or opportunies out there; it just our mindset and motivation to make it happen: Work Force Management (WFM) 24, Malay,F Diploma in Architecture Iy 6month experience Kuala Lumpur RM3250 MNC Company can finish my work daily, usually Monday)hrfihaers= Jahy (4don eveavly 1 mind about my salary: know can 0 a better salary as got an offer from another MNC company for a manager position (>RM8.5k) 1 know can do it, but didn't choose to move because rn still working on my mental health to overcome my childhood trauma: Also the latest increment that got 1 is more than 13% with minimum effort. So think it's quite comfortable to stay for a while without worrying too much about being underpaid while I'm working on healing my mental health: day: get "| sought help at the end of 2017 after experiencing depression symptoms: It was clear where I had lost interest in what used to enjoy: On weekends; 1 would sleep nearly 16 hours only to wake up, eat; and then sleep again: was diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder Il after ten months: The treatment lasted more than two years: In retrospect, had a fantastic team and boss: The work we did was about giving back to society, and it was one of my proudest achievements; but how did [ end up sending my mental health to work?" 1 did actually asked all the staffs to do some office work but no one wants to give me any: But the female interns were gave some Excel tasks and an ID for the company system: Tbh, Idid met a male friend who interned there like 4 years ago. He said 1 that he and other male interns did the same job as am and were not given any office jobs. @malaysianpaygap Were given* Because we're a small team in MY, no am an individual contributor (IC) , and technically yes and no for the matching on the job market salary 1 Yes if you have more than 5 years experience (which have about 5 years, so technically a no), I have "tested" the waters and applied some jobs but it's often lower than what am earning and gosh: seems a lot less inspiring and exciting: How to grow in your field of work? 1 Honestly just experience life in the moment by listening and paying a lot of attention to how we behave as humans; our goal is to create better learning experiences that is life- changing:  But my advice to those who wants to pursue this career; you need to have 1 the right amount of passion and interest if not you will be very stressed with all the clinical works, mortalities, CME and administration duties. Because if you are just pursuing this 1 field for the sake of familiesljust want to be a professional then its not worth it: So many of my friends diagnosed with depression and anxiety because 1 of this line. Hm, think might have it but am just barely hanging on right now: @malaysianpaygap 4 started working at the E-commerce 1 tiorepae comparicesthereer Myaasic salary was rm2.Sk. Later then, after 3 years, worked as a Data Analyst in the same company for a year: The team was small because it was new: In September 2022, finished my 1 degree :) After 5 years of studying, Alhamdulillah finished it. It was tough; such a rollercoaster for working and study at the same time. My assignments and exams just the same like full time students, the difference 1 was just that my class was on every Sunday: @malaysianpaygap quite More sharing Having two salaries is more effective than fighting for promotion in MNC. Most MNCs give 10-20% for promotion (of course there are L hcheverumbersyo batstanding understand that not everyone can be high achievers. This is the fastest way for normal folks like me to get a higher income and | get experience simultaneously in two MNCs. Salary increment was 2.5k to begin with: Raised to 3k after two years: 1 Then to 4k after a year: Oh ya there's some other perks for health and travel of up to 2k sgd per year: As everything is cpf deductible as Ima Pr: To grow in this field: feel that we 1 need to put in lots of work after hours to develop skills or do own projects that can make you stand out. Else it's just repetitive tasks on a daily: And lots of people skills needed as we need liaise with 1 suppliers and customers so having a good personality definitely helps: The only silver lining see here is that im given the opportunity to work on big budget projects, garner experience; and make connections as the people work with (particularly our creatives and higher ups) have very successful careers and are also extremely talented-_so theres a lot that can {eose faopecte on Bop oeigling 1 constant stress, deadlines, work, and non-existent savings at the end of the month conflicts me as to whether or not the benefits outweigh the costs to my mental, physical, and financial health: |'ve said it before to a friend of mine. 8 but an ad agency really feels like a bootcamp that does give you one-of-a-kind experience and skills, but can also leave you broken and too unmotivated to ever step foot in marketing and advertising top again Advice to the people who's lured into their trap, just don't. Run as far as you can haha: You'Il be stressed 8 and will be left W no money and career progression, and toxic company: To the donors that has ever donated, withdraw your 83 donations and stop. 1 don't even know where your money is being given: 8 Pls: search in Youtube 'The Slave Circle' This is what we do on a daily basis: ~App developer -26, chinese, female -7 months ~fully remote 8 ~getting my master's in Mathematics ~currently salary RM35OO 1 Love my job, super healthy epeiroonenunieatioe hoth thed 1 boss. work in a start up that is less than 2 years old. Sure, the pay is not high compared to others,but as long as there is room for growth, this job is /0 Replied to your story Oehchrehatro Indeahy doremadlt ndoteuinorlnaltin Dt Inedkeo omkcotd 040 m Wttlo  ney oulemuntatott Inoner Kaen oufler Wu tood (0 onciy nollentt onaie  Doviru Diblyol besmu Aneencly rerded I ast coumdn'I ortli in Orerino Ond parca lercorrida Decrute Lonta potlentolaro [ucuasibiaboucth Galtn Inrnn This is true. Some patients will have to overnight in the hospital because they have miss the last bus home so they have to wait till Tmr morning for the earliest bus: Doc/nurse will order grab car for them so that they don' t have to stay in the hospital: Some with illness, some with few kids. Sadly another side of the world, came in using connection cutting queue and everyone has to service them: Jhon Jdee Imcultnt Salary : RMZSK per month; bonus 2x per year; RMIOOk (bonus)_ Field Research to find drugs and 3 vaccine. (Hybrid, Ican work at home and office) @malaysianpaygap spent years to complete PhD, and | got to be in pharmaceutical industry abroad even before attending my PhD graduation. Working in such a healthy 1 environment; no overtime , no busy schedule and enjoy working soO much: had few education debt before and it lumpsum paid First job since graduated in 2012, started out with RM12OO. Company 1 isorkirclepercaratndolsercarghiot an authorize service center. Consist of about 15 staffs, 10 are technicians. As a senior; supervise the operation of the workshop and do most of the diagnostics: Iguess my salary is around market price? Im not sure, which is Im writing: Also trying to explore what 1 kird oy ghaificatiotrgot mesitivant to something fresh and interesting, other than working in a workshop or starting my own workshop which i cant afford if continue working as a Mechanic? Please advice 8 why get try Operation Associate, e-commerce 24, Malay, Female 7 months (fresh grad end of July 2021) KL Bachelor Degree RM3OOO. If got OT, event dentaropticag} sGinetireecacal, 1 reach 3.5k 4k My company is one of the famous J company in e-commerce are quite famous with "no work life balance" haha but for me, my 0 department everything was good (depends on department) By 6.30 p.m usually we already ended our daily task: was hoping to have over time cause yea want extra doneoveutihave $0 acevegthing 0 was great and I'm happy that can experience in this giant e- commerce company: Hoping that after 2-3 years will be with another company to more and different experience They far, gain gain SAP Analyst (entry level) , IT Industry 25, malay; muslim Experience: almost 1 year in the job, but been in the IT field for around 2.5 years Location: KL, but fully remotely for Qcalification: Bachelor's Degree 8 Salary: RM 3700 (before epf 1 deduction, excluding OT and other benefit) SAP is a great industry; lucrative 1 if re good in it. would suggest to always learn new skills and take certifications related to your job scope especially in the IT industry (if you know that's what you want) . Stay humble and learn along: Also, never depend on a job always do side hustles: Age: you'1 Job: Dentist (General Practitioner) Government Sector (UG48) Female/30's/Malay 7 years of experience KL (not easy to get yaa) Qualification: Degree Local University 0 Current salary: 7700 1 During my time (most hated sentence hehe) , dentist are automatically offered permanent post in government sector as compared to nowadays, hard competition to get absorbed: Day job: Digital Manager RM16K Gross Side Hustle: Personal Shopper: RM5OO-3K 8 Defogeableco wravethe waisvilege of 1 personal shopper by collecting pre-order from friends by understanding what the things like can't it in MY. It was mainly to cover my travel expenses. Then comes MCO, 8 was selling beauty and skincare items since beauty salon is not aywOMad fiends 1 recommendation; strangers started to PM me to purchase and it grew from there_ @sidhustlossk they yet get 1 So how do i delivery actual work? |'Il make the project implementation sounds super complicated, and request budget to hire niche expert. IIl go on hire expert (contract) to do the implementation job. Yes, pay that contractor 20-30% higher; he get the job done, get the credit and that's how i climb without knowing anything: it's a win-win situation. This is just 1 1 way; i've many other way to deliver work without actually working: @malaysianpaygap It wasn't an easy decision, and the doubts and criticisms from others still lingered: But knew deep down that 1 was making the right choice for myself: The property industry had given me more than just financial 1 success; it had enriched my life in ways couldn't put into words: @malaysianpaygap To the naysayers, now say this: the property industry is my world, and am proud of it: The challenges and misconceptions only fueled my 1 8 Ctgrmnioatio te exetheee / found my purpose and where my dreams came to life. mentally as don't see the opportunity to grow: applied for 1 jobs everywhere in Malaysia as well as in Singapore. In the end, 1 got interviewed current place, specialising in my niche area, with fundings, flexible and good work life balance. The salary is wayyy more than what can expect from the 1 same position in Malaysia, hence leading to me thinking that perhaps the position is really underpaid in Malaysia: by my Although they keep asking me if want more, they still worried about my mental health by keep asking me to rest well and tell them if they give me too much work. Besides; the things 1 that value the most is will give me credits for things that have done (traumatised by previous experience where lecturer told me to let people take my credit because it is called 'society' @malaysianpaygap they How t0 MAXtMIzE Vour ANNual LEAVE 2024 2 DAY LEAVE FOR A 5 DAY HOLIDAY 24 JAN; 26 JAN MALAYSIAN Ravgap The nature of the field is very fulfilling and gives me purpose_ But the job itself could be more enjoyable if the team were more enthusiastic about trying new tiygw.rveo aitiatt gette groyf 1 had 11 ALs. Its an important job and someone needs to do it but at the end of the day found that striving on passion ONLY will not make you feel u satisfied with your personal 8 growth & will affect your mental well being: Conservationists deserve a wage too. top days living Cloud Security (working with one CSP only) Industry: FSI salary pre-tax: 5000 0 GeccteonagebetayMale , 26 , Malay Qualificationlyears of experience: 3 years (different IT Domains) , have multiple entry level cloud certs. Still learning to take my associate certs: 8 My work revolves around anything which is in cloud security domain (still a new Team thus not a big scope at the moment) Covid hits on my 4th month working, salary has been adjusted to daily payment as per agreed 5 as we need to take leave every other Only 1 staff needed since patients visits declines more than 80% on the first 1 lockdown. After clinic is doing good on 2nd quarter 2020, my salary increases to RM2,OO0 (2nd increment) Since I'm looking for a career growth and experience, started applying for hospitals. But most hospitals turned 1 me down because wanted staff with hospital experience mainly emergency department: a call from KKM Gth quarter 2020 and offers me an urgent position to serve as Covid frontliner in Sarawak, only 3 hours time given to make decision, flying in 3 days and unsure when 1 coming back to Peninsular- might be stuck there for years. 1 declined since nobody taking care of my mom that time. @malaysianpaygap day: they got My advice dont stick to 1 company: People say grass is greener on the other side. In this case, the ocean is bluer on the other side. But, shifting companies too frequently also not good for career development: The time served in company counts, 1 other than experience. forgot to mention; the best time to join this career is after high school: So that you don't waste your younger age to develop in this career: Footnote: We are working with multi- national crew: Mix around with other 0 nationalities, to work as one. No racists are welcomed, and no politics: We have a small world on the ship sailing on the big world: iS, To other SPM leavers, nursing is a great course to study because there were a lot of place and jobs for you; but if you want to achieve jobs with 1 big salaries, then this one is not for you unfortunately: Despite the basic is quite high (considering it is a place outside of 6 KV), but i'm still unsatisfied as the allowance doesn't match with the stress and also the workload. Job Equipment Engineer Industry Semiconductor (MNC) Salary pre tax 7K basic (during probation) 1 Genclefteatnfirm) Race Indian Age 28 Years of experience 3 came back to Malaysia after working abroad for several years to 1 belalyseggaraud doubeetotiple of what make now(depending on OT). But think my previous experience and salary helped in negotiating package for current role. Ist job : 3k bsic + 2k allowance, was there until my salary reached 4.5k basic 2nd job : 7.2k with 300 allowance_ 1 Didn't like this company SO move within 5 months 1 3rd job : 8.5k 4th job : I5k moved to another company for 15k salary: The 3rd company 1 counter offered with promotion/ 12k but | decided to leave anyways_ don't have a major so I'm always willing to step up for new challenges and open to learn new things, resulting change of roles over the The increment isn't significant until recently when assigned to current role 1 Working hour; 8 hours a and 5 days a week Don't usually require to work after hours except when we have any big projects or events  have great analytical skills and a good problem solver for the company years day feel the salary is within the spaeketrangepposerey shooleable 1 to get around RMIOk for IA Manager: The issue could be: 1. Started with low salary in my 0 career (RM2,500 in 2014 with ard RM1OO RM3OO annual 0 increment) 2. Choice of company (small audit 1 firm instead of big 4 when start working after grad) 3. Negotiation skill (naive during early stage of career) 4. No doubt race & gender plays a role however; small part in my career hence its no 4 1 path Clinic Admin 24 years old, malay; female 6 months Selangor On going bachelor of business 8 administration (part time) 1 RMI.6k after deductions, socso&epf (exclude ot) 1 This job is my second place to work as admin; tbh my current salary is better than the previous one. It was 1.1k. Pet Groomer 24,Indian,Female Syears Diploma in pet grooming and management: 4 RM 2.2K + commission will be around 3.2k 1 Salary is too low for someone that have to handle dogs, gets 1 bitten by multiple dogs, back pain,exhausted at the end of the day: No time to spend with family and friends due to exhaustion: One day off to get personal things done and to rest. big Then | said knew bout GIS, remote sensing bit, as there're classes bout this in my degree program which later they offered me with this GIS Analyst position as they need people to do digitising with the data and worked directly with the clients. If anyone asked where's my office (the company 8 that hired me) , just said idk coz |'ve been assigned to report here from the Ist day till the last day: As now my contract already ended, and wish to stay in this GIS field. I wanna ask 1 what's more can i add value for the employers to hire me as feel like I'm just doing the tip of basic things in this field: @malaysianpaygap Need advice and thank you in advance ;) WOMEN TalentCorp CAREER 1898} CIitchuTWCr oust GROup 0f companies CONVENTION SECOND EDITION 2023 Time LIVE 21 October 2023 Facebook Page Saturday TalentCorpMsia 10.00 am 5.00 p.m AGENDA 10.00 AM Opening remarks by TalentCorp 10.10 AM Panel discussion 1:'Creating a conducive working system to promote women talent growth' 10.55 AM Workshop on 'Power of influence in creating work opportunities and creating your portfolio' 12.25 PM Panel discussion 2: 'Ageing Workforce vs. Active ageing, do go hand in hand as Malaysia becomes an ageing nation?' 1.10 PM Lunch break 2.00 PM Workshop on 'Mental Health: Overcoming Obstacles In Life" by PlusVibe 4.00 PM Speed networkwing dating with Talent Acquisition Specialists and Human Resource Managers 5.00 PM Live stream ends wwwwomencareerconvention.com TalentCorpMsia wwwtalentcorp com.my they 4tb employer's branding Fawth 8 QC Analyst in a pharmaceutical manufacturing industry 26, Malay; Female 3 years experience Bangi Bachelor's degree 3 Current salary: RM2520 (read: no 1 increment since 2020) Good place for fresh grads to 1 learn and acquire skills & experience; higher probation salary than most companies. As you work longer; it get's toxic pretty quickly: Been job hunting for a year and a half: Software Engineer Full Stack Developer Full-time Student GTA Roleplay Server USD 2000 / month (before fees, etc) 8 Selangohinese BSc. Computer Science & Data Science 8 Started in August 2021 when was about to start my one year intermission from university in my first year: | took the intermission because couldn't tahan online 2 classes and ought to take the opportunity to find remote work or do courses: was lucky enough to be hired for a GTA Roleplaying server across the world (US, AUS, and Bangladesh) 1-sentence workplace lesson of the month: Peace of mind > salary Build relationships with your bosses! Don't waste your energy speaking if they don't listen Trust the company reviews you see on glassdoor Keep your life private, never share with your colleagues Ijust want to advise all Malaysians that it's very likely you'Il find a 1 situation where you're hired in an agency and get stuck on this for quite some time_ wanted to my agency job for a while and took the first offer that was handed to me without a raise. @malaysianpaygap During my agency days wasn't 0 serecngnclien sskencetherafted taking the initiative to learn core skills that | want to end up in (i.e. SQL, tableau, power BI)_ quit Farm Supervisor 28/FIC 1 Bachefor inagricastecai Science 1.5 years at previous company 2 months at current company Previous Salary (gross) RMZk Current salary(gross) . RM3.Sk 1 RMI+k allowance+accommodation+ meals provided) Legal Secretary 38 YO Been working since 2010 Full salary RM19OO After deduction RM1ZOO+ 3 With the current price hike etc am seeing red on my finance since the beginning of the 1 pandemic. There are only 2 employees in the 1 company: Though it is a rather small one the gap is apparent with our salaries are below RM2OOO Started with RM14OO then now RM19OO where is stayed stagnant for years now: No increments. No annual bonus. It is somewhat annoying: Occupation: Insurance Broker Designation: Senior Associate Age & Sex: 28, Female Experience: 3 years Gross Salary: 5.5k 1 Insurance has always been my passion: 1 decided to be a broker as it is not just "insurance" You actually understand the risk exposure facing by the clients, how the market works, and provide the best solution for them to transfer 1 their risk The majority of the clients are the big boys in such industry: We dont work for insurance company; we work for our clients (Do not mistaken uS with insurance agents)  . Production Planner 34, malay; female 10 years since i started as a planner Selangor Bachelor of chemical engineering 1 0xCurrent salary: RM 7.5k before epfltax deductions 0 Been jumping jobs every 1-2 years, since this is the only way to jump to higher salary. Started my career at RM2.3k as production and material planner; up to assistant manager supply and demaacevenayencoapderics 1 exec level again but got 30% increments, so all good now we all need money then anything Barber 24/male/Malay 6 months into the job Kuala lumpur Diploma Current salary: 3000-4000 1 Maeaaia anderenitelyjudderpaid  1 especially the barber industry: Most of us don't really have a basic fixed salary because it's fully comission based (the more you cut; higher the salary) . Nowadays it's easy for you to open up a barbershop even without any experience whatsoever and give out super cheap haircuts and it's As my responsibilities increases think my pay doesn't match with what provide to the company; but sure learnt a lot of skills here that 1 could use of in the future: Advice for fresh grads, don't be like me giving a Iow expected salary before starting my job and regret later on thinking how stupid was: Make sure you have done your salary research on the job you seeking calculate your own exprnses and make sure your expected salary can cover what your needs before interview and ekertateghtalararbecavger 1 employer will always to push it down_ very for, try But for an outstation rep, sometimes it can be a bit lonely as don't have 8 colleagues here. And since am on the move everyday; all those travelling can be tiring: Worse is that you can drive so far but then the doctor or pharmacist didn't even 8 want to see you but that's just another day in the office lol: One thing for sure when you venture into sales, you need to possess communication and interpersonal skills, as well as a bit 1 of knowledge on business operations so you can cater to your clients need. hey good Cyber Security Engineer KL Male/24/Chinese Degree in CyberSec 3 The previous post about a Cyber Security Engineer working in HK pretty controversial cause people were saying it's not in Malaysia, well this one is first job after graduating 1 durirgybee seandevcci 2oyberas 1 Threat Analyst: The base pay there as a fresh was 3k, which increased to 3.1k in 2021. OT is an additional ~Ik (yes we had to work midnight shifts) , they also gave very high valued equity for every year that stayed. But / left the company after about a year there because of a toxic work balkseabbig)-anaaoistant 1 midnight shifts were super draining: Nevertheless, working at a famous Cybersec company was a addition to my resumel got My grad good Hey there, got a sexy pay bump in my dayjob so / wanted to sharel Job, industry, salary pre-tax: Copywriter; Advertising; RM7OOO 1 Kocation international clients) Gender; Age, Race: Female, 33, Mixed Chemist (Glove Industry) 25, Malay; Male Shah Alam 1 year++ experience Bachelor Sc in Chemistry RM39O0 (Basic + Allowance) Bonus 3-5 months salary (depends on KPI) J Very fast pace company No OT allowed for other deokrtreenalancept manufacturing 1 Need to work your ass off during 8 hours working Independent environment Need to come out with own idea and studies for product improvement; and cost savings A great company for a fresh grad to experience Supportive teammate and superior gain Financial advice: Honestly, my main job's pay ain't that Compared to my peers, I'm on the lower average but / spend way more than my peers on food and travel: | don't splurge on branded, what is enough and worth it. Food is the only thing that | spend without looking at the menu (this is bad honestly but it makes me 1 happy, not my wallet though In order to not overspend, make 1 sdonto really pran befospeneinging: but make sure that don't splurge on multiple things in a single pay-check: If plan to 3 multiple expensive items/meals (RM5OO or above) , I split up the spendings. Example: buy a phone (RMSOOO) this month and don't anything over RM5OO for the next 5 months to just even out my spendings: @uikhutlonry good: buy buy buy Job: veterinarian 28 years old, malay, female 2 years of experience Area: Selangor/KL Academic qualification: Doctor in veterinary medicine Current salary: 3.1k after EPF and 1 SOCSO cut Workangraise since Ist started 1 Contract base. Tough job handling animals and even tougher to deal with pet owners: Sometimes you just want to away from everything and unwind: But at the end of the you only have so little money left with so much anxiety and depression: We love our job but please be kind to uS get day, hil i saw alot of comments on lawyers being underpaid: that is very unfortunate and sad: yes agree generally we are very much underpaid compared to the other S countries in our region. However; it really depends on where a particular lawyer practices law.In KL, especially corporate field and medium to large size firm, the salary is not as bad as what has been disclosed. A junior lawyer with 1-3 years or worst case 4 1 years experience can earn about 1 cosiaeredeowheishifigureregion; Especially if we compare with Singapore. In any case, it differs from one law firm to another and the field of law that a lawyer works in: Supply is defly much more than demand nowadays: Not all lawyers are so badly paid: {segpeore fothereppoidUaitieer sf 1 not within the country; Singapore. Singapore firms mostly prefer to hire Malaysians bcos we are "cheap' But for US, pay the same figure bt in SGD. So its good enough. try they I'm not leading a team per se, but each of us "owns" an account; and | share this responsibility with a few of my colleagues: think my salary is right on point for the market average (or at least it should, given what we're expected to do)  @malaysianpaygap 1 Fotoalcve oveveadieg dredimpiortgnMayg writers in my team have published works in some form or another; and we know the ins and outs of language (some have even worked as translators as their first job). If you're looking to grow; read a lot! Write different genres! different formats! Try NcEd Hi malaysianpaygap, want to ask for your followers' and your advice. My current position is a non-executive one. But my executive always asked and told me to do his works eventhough my works haven't done yet. did ask him on who's Incharge to do the task and he said it's his but he hates doing it, hence he passed everything to me. Mind that, he begged our manager to secure him the position he's currently in and there's no interview: Yet he didn't want to do his job: This whole situation is very new to me SO want to know what should and what can i do? Should i let go and do his works, or should i report him to our manager? Can this issue being reported to pejabat buruh? really hope you or followers can provide some insight on my situation Advice_, YOuR your The only reason why continue to stay in this company is because of my passion in journalism and writing: My Jegadalar enpeyereniaAndterthane ] recent essential price hike & increase of minimum wage to RM 1,500, feel that my salary isn't enough to sustain: I'm not sure if it is just my company that undervalue writers, or the way am working makes the company valuate my salary accordingly: 1 stay home most days, and only go out to interview my subjects. rarely visit the office: But like to give credit to myself that do write quality stories, and some of them even award winning: (I actually won some awards throughout my time with the 1 company) started looking for jobs but YEARS of experience matters more than EXPOSURE to an experience. | am handling 80% of my ex-senior 1 manager's work and it is not easy: Even then, managed with zero supervision because no one was willing to take over when he resigned 1 bedatree OrvasetoOkcemprehehsive and hard: am even leading a team for a project: Is my salary considered high for my age? Many offers are Iow- 1 balling and feel it is not worth-it. Should just be grateful and stick around here for anorhee year or two? do not know what to do. Helpl @malaysianpaygap 3 In order to grow in this field you need to always keep yourself updated, and more cetercetiield is itrheghhaerhend 1 1 globally; which is a good leverage. Don't be surprised how much more pay for positions based overseas: I'm currently trying to moved to SG, so fingers crossed 1 get they get Do you mind to share more about your academic background and tips to master the craft? Anything for people who may be interested to explore your profession would go after tutorial on YouTube or online course, for academic standard on Malaysia haven't catch 1 pipelinerdet eresofechrologiese; To job opportunities on international industry you need to work and learn on yourself for those information online 8 specific to recommend? Is this job all about portfolio etc all about portfolio and connections not really specific, just google it then you can get a lot of resources get Any Yup bonus pay and very little annual increment of as low as RM125 Young dental officers like me were enrolled under New Dental Officer Programme (NDOP) where we are contract officers Meaning to say you have to excel in every aspect & including Oral Health Promotiom 1 activities Itask Promosi)during your evaluation year in order to be 'absorbed as a permanent dental officer: Yet there are some great benefits of working in government or | call it a luxury of time : 8-5 routine, weekends, 25 days of 1 leave and plenty of free time to run your personal errands: In short; working in government you earn less than in private but you have a work-life balance Cheers Istarted my first job at one of Big 4 in PJ in 2020, which offered me RM3,300. After 1 year; there was an increment to RM3,800. I started to rent in KL, which costs me RMIk per month: At the same time, have to pay my car loan RM6OO, and give RM4OO for my family; which left me RM1,800. RMI,800 seems a lot for some people, but with the high living costs (i.e. food, entereiablero faee about Rurzoce}, 1 RMIk per month: After 2 years of working; 1 only be able to save about RM1Ok Then, started to feel worried, how am going to buy a house in Selangor or KL? really wanted to stay in Damansara, but the property that want costs about RMZOOk and above. How am going to afford this house by 30-352 @malaysianpaygap Medical Sales Representative (Pharmaceutical Line) , 24, Male, Malay; Ist job (Graduated in December 2022, and started the job 8 in the same month): RM31O0 after probation (Basic + petrol + car + phone allowance). Incentive are capped after certain amount past your monthly target sales: 3 Benefits: flex working hour (start at 8-5 but have the freedom to plan my schedule. Petrol, phone bill; and car allowance_ 1 am one of the outstation reps for the company; responsible for the accounts for a city in east coast and central region. This is a SME, generic drugs company: hats because its getting more unfeasible to hire more troops. Cash flow remains a serious problem for litigation lawyers. Money usually comes in only after 1 obtaining a benefit for the client which can take months (assuming 0that the client is a good paymaster) . An increasing number of lawyers in the country means that clients can go "lawyer - shopping" which causes law firms to undercut one another just to 1 secure the brief. This results in law firms taking on too many files and overloading their legal assistants just to make ends meet: was so lucky to say that able to my current job although it was far from my hometown but still | able to a better platform for me while getting a better pay than my previous job. am aware that most of the agricultural related jobs are 1 grateuoaechat eceallyochavshny working experience. Increment or job promotion are probably rare even though you already worked for more than one year at that company because of management issues and superior issues. So would like to 2 share that even though fresh graduates are not being appreciated by certain company but if you still passionate in this industry; there must be a way to look for a better company that appreciate your hard 2 work and experience. get gain For those who don t know what GTA roleplay is, it's basically a modded 8 version of Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto 5 online but the npc's are actual players. Everything from police, emergency medical services, justice system is all run by the 8 player base. There's also businesses that players can run and make money to buy all sorts of things in game like houses, exclusive vehicles, clothes, etc. It's 2 also one of the most streamed games on Twitchl 1-sentence workplace lesson of the month: Always stand up for yourself! Learn to say No often: young office couple should behave & be professional at work The growth of your mind > the growth of your company: No offer letter = adios. Angkat kaki fast2. Basically my job is to be the middle person who serves and takes organisers (clients) orders 3 and manifest clients' planning, orders, programme, etc: in a report: This report is like almost like a bible for my operation AKA on floor onsite team to deliver all our clients orders: this job is ideally not meant male in view that you need to be 1 able to take unlimited amount of stress yet to be able to multitask and same time , cope with last min requests from clients and ensure the message is passed down well to your onsite team: for 1 after only 4 months on the job. I switched companies and downgraded to Digital Marketing Lead. It was a lesson well learnt. Not every good paying job is worth your mental health: Many 1 Malaysians would have ignored their mental health in pursuit of money and brand recognition: But it was truly not worth it. Iam 1Ox happier now and make the same 1 amount working a regular job + part-time job of passion: jining aevRuS Saaandecoretm 1 back to RM4.SK (excluding part- time). Chase happiness & passion, money will follow: quit Software engineer; tech company 24, female 2 years Selangor 1 Derrert salary: 6800 monthly base salary  Started as a fresh graduate at 5200 monthly; after two years company gave a raise to current salary as recognition for my work: It's important to know your worth and 1 don't be afraid to negotiate your pay even as a fresh graduate. good luck to all fellow females in tech out there and hope you find a company that recognises your worthl This should be in your radar: Women Career Convention virtual job fair; apply & chat with hiring companies 21-22 Oct companies can post vacancies at no charge tune in live on Facebook to explore diff talks: women in workforce, career returnees, senior talents, mental health Fight YOU JOB SCAMMERS 4, Perks and benefits Used to 1 OT by minutes in my previous job. Here I'm not entitled for OT during weekdays. Also used to stocks in my previous company: 5. Decision making: Compared to my previous company; my current role has direct access to decision makers have a lead role here, so 1 decisioredCom p revioadeobster get paid get Procurement associate (Korean Speaker) , pharmaceutical company 30, Chinese, Female 6 months KL Bachelor of Science (Biotechnology) Cecrectionlaxcirding refoge 1 bonus and other benefits 1 Saw someone who is a billingual 0 programmer who is asking if their pay is underpaid or not. So myself I'ma self studied Korean learner (thanks to kdrama) with TOPIK level 5 qualifications but have zero experience nor any education background in my current job to Pettyohankaneot gettengathis job 0 during pandemic because they accept me despite me having zero experience. Currently working from home. So is my salary consider acceptable? am still new in this role and honestly don't know much on the market rate (any payscale links would be very much helpful, 0 thinking of starting a conversation on my pay with HR). There are multiple places to learn cloud tech online, but nothing comes closer than hands-on experience. Still a long way to go but certain this is the 8 route want to be in. kind of suggestion/improvement would be very much appreciated. Any "Sleeping pod in the office, free flow coffee,tea and drinks, in-house gym room, gaming and karaoke room PS5" 1ore Sleeping pod in the office, free flow coffee, tea and drinks, in-house gym room, gaming and Karaoke room (we have PSS herel) Staff Nurse, Healthcare Industry Outside Klang Valley 24, Malay 1 Degrear Basic 2200 Allowance 600 + 100 (Degree 6 Afhoaceer week (doesn"t include on-call or standby call) Job: Eyelashes Artist Salary: 1.5k Commission: 5% per customer (But only when hit target of RMSOOO of total sales) 8 Location: Sabah 23 Experience: 3 year Qualification: Eyelashes Course No annual leave 1 Cemeensatiosportation Working in a company with 8 employees: Wonder if it's up to  market standard? Age: Merchant Mariner (Trainee Captain) Male, 29 9+ years working experience Almost 6 years seatime Salary USD145O0 Merchant Mariner or Seafarer; is not a glamor job or well-known career in Malaysia: Mostly dominated by Indians, Filipinos and Ukrainian: gradusated Orgy jochoverwiereto the 1 academy when was 17, started sailing as cadet at 18. Started my Deck Officer career at 21. This job is not as tough until you're married and have kids. Leaving kids and wife for months (from my exp max 9 months long) is really mentally challenging: But the pay is good, so Somenowenantepeople are still opting 0 for shore jobs after sometime. choose to stay til at least reached my goals: I'd like to see more Malaysians in this field; bcs Malaysians are very good in this job from what see, honestly: Im still not officially a Captain yet, but hopefully soon: Logistics Head 38, Chinese, Female 18 years experience Kuala Lumpur Diploma 8 Current Salary: 19k (before deductions) 0 Others benefit: Claimable Petrol, 8 0 Toll, Parking, 14 months salary (Company just announced 16 months starting 2023) , Flexible working hour; Medical benefits covered direct family: Do what you Love for a living: 1 While every may not be amazing; a job you genuinely love will help you maintain a positive attitude on even the most challenging days day Around 11 years ago was brought into this industry by my tuition teacher; | think was very lucky to start in the 0 boeertyerarkegeuzing fushegktwhen purchase properties. | closed my first deal within 6 months and earned a 1 commission of 15k in a single which felt like a dream come true. As deeper into the industry; it seemed like hit the jackpot every @malaysianpaygap 0 8 Foogeveme hadtargGrorrogleepivery the car for few months and showering through budget hotels, i finally gotten my first property by the age of 22 and my dream car by 24. However; on the day, got day: How t0 Maxtmize Vour ANNuAL LEAVE 2024 2 DAY LEAVE FOR A 5 DAY HOLIDAY 23 MAY 24MAY MALAYSIAN Pavgap Free meal (breakfast/lunch) everyday; work laptop (along with mouse and noise-cancelling headphone) , one leave per month, sick leaves and hospitalisation leave, free flow of vending machine drinks (milo, chocolate, coffee, etc:) 1 As for the environment; there are games room (hockey table, snookers, arcade machine, dart; Switch, etc:) , back massager; bed (if you're feeling unwell or you just want to sleep) and of course a good view Cons-Reporting is headache when comes to tons of report waiting for 8 you to do n finalise n heavy site walkdown Pros-flexible working hours. 1 Am currently searching for jobs at miri; Sarawak as got back n knee surieh (oinensobi&e ciaykcown), 1 Hope that admin can post it out see is that any job opportunities at miri via this post Thanks How to grow in my field of work: 1. To slowly move away from teaching, one may apply for a promotion to be a senior assistant then a headmaster: If possible; complete your masterslphD as fast as you can after your degree. This will help in changing career paths offkie/edteateparcoeegeniniitsJlistriou 1 lose interest in teaching in a school: 2. To remain as a teacher; apply for laluan Guru Cemerlang: The salary increases but so does the work; you're supposed to remain in school & be an exemplary teacher but you'Il be freiniegs etcaledetitres awefifromn 0 location and others have to substitute your classes Why did | accept the offer: feel education within & beyond the classroom is important and people have said am good in teaching: your 1 think its all about managing up and down. Building rapport and trust with 1 people, use jargon, make them feel important and talk about @malaysianpaygap management careless on how stuff get done, more into why and what: So play with that Outsource the "technical how" to 1 Silaenkaborheosthyoarw hke; jucanake it up based on ur convo with boss and upper bosses key why Key Pros: pension scheme- as you retire, you will receive pension, health benefit, Ist class entitlement. Specific high skilled job allows you to anytime to pursue elsewhere, there are many opportunities to level up your skill. pectstcevto asayobejoelegood 1 work life balance, 25 days annual leave, 8-5 job. Yearly increment depending on your grade, starting at 225 (mine is 275 now). Festive season bonus, usually twice a year; about RM5OO one off: quit Job: Accounts Executive (<year exp) 3k bfore deduction 2.5after Industry: Advertising & Marketing (FMCG) Agency Age: 23 Agency recently went from Hybrid to fully in-office. Caused me a lot 1 of stress both work-wise and financially, as the morning commute kills me everyday and the long hours mean need to have breakfast, lunch, and dinner out of home from Monday to Friday: Before it was more 8 manageable as WFH meant that my mornings were less stress - inducing but now that have to account for travel, start my off with much less energy than before_ Pay: day 1 Job: Supply Chain Specialist Industry: Heavy Duty Manufacturing/Engine/Generators 4k Sgd Location: Singapore 1 Gender: Male Age: 30 Race: Indian Qualification: BEng in Aerospace Years of Experience: 6 1 Pay: How manage my to schedule start my 30 mins early to make sure | am all caught up with emails from both companies. After that; come up with a schedule to divide my to-do-tasks for each jobs and how long should spend on each tasks. The break down is usually pretty even, 3 hours ish for each jobs. Some days more, some days less. The important thing is to L begieningrofhevercherdrheirg the In certain ways, am lucky that my secondary job has less meetings. have been working two full time jobs for more than a year noW; my advice is if you want to take two salaries like do, make sure at least one of your job is less hectic and not managerial: Many experienced folks from the US do this by choosing an entry level second job. day day day Job: Senior Finance cum HR executive, 29, RM5,600 ~ Location: KL Qualification: Bachelor degree in Accounting, 5 years of experience 3 The company is a SME company with 30 headcounts and assist clients to achieve their marketing goals and increase leads. Flexible 1 working hours I'm handling the full sets of accounts for 3 active companies, HR, audit and tax planning: Although have learnt a lot from this job compared to the previous, feel that I'm not 8 adequately compensated or being promoted as fast the Sales & [ got an offer to work as an admin (contract 1 year) in Bangsar South: | worked closely with the internal auditors, cuz work as an admin in 1 Riat depane eeam wasagaeathactireve them, however didn't think I'm able to grow my career just by being an admin: So made a decision to just quit and took that risk. | applied hundreds of jobs but got rejected: 1 Later then, | got an offer to work as a kindergarten teacher in Bangsar: My basic salary was RM1.2k. worked from Zam 7pm: It was really tiring for me because studied too at the same time: @malaysianpaygap 1 Igot an interview from one of the E- commerce companies in Malaysia. went for the interview and passed it. started to work at there in July 2018. As my career progressed, have now taken on the role of leader; leading a team of 7, bringing in million-dollar business to Allianz yearly: Having the opportunity to train and transform people has foadee  volyGvenmorateiwarqag 1 made a career switch from engineering to insurance 13 years eggineeringi/ batssoonat [uboeft as L a hobby: want to note that,; it's important to figure out your strengths very early on by exploring variety: Sometimes it's 1 not that you're bad in a job, you could just be working in the wrong one_ Truel Even in tertiary hospital, we need to by foods or sometime medical device (oxygen tank or spirometery )for the patients: still remember; my patient who fast for the whole and can break his fast since the operation was postponed: But no food even mineral water beside him, sO just went and brought it for him: This is just one example, there are many other and which my friends also doing the same_ day It's not the life want: Now; am decide to search the new job that really loved (mostly related to marine and environment like WWF) . But as know; their salary is quite low becoz is under NGO. am happy-go-lucky person, | don't 1 like the stressful lifestyle in city: I'm in love with the nature and want to do smthg for the environment: really need some advice to help me getting more job info abt the marine and environmental science. lesMalopelar Thai etherencousse 1 Anddddd it really so hard to find the job, except you still hv passion to further study then maybe can go overseas. quite In the BPO project tht was handling absorb by principal and my starting pay is 3.5k with half yearly commission of 60/40. Now After 4 years in being in principal I'm at 4.5k 1 salary with the same half yearly commission of 60/40. In the current company Im working for we get to work from home but the pressure of working from home does take a toll on mental health and physical being: Just wondering if this is the right job and if I'm being under paid? Thinking 1 of moving to a new role or a different company but just don't know where stand in the job market got your Do you think you're a valuable asset to the company? 1 yes, we have such a small team in Malaysia and most of our team is in other regions not to toot my own horns but whenever we introduce ourselves, my boss refers to me as "the brain" of the company; whereas she is the "face" (sales) and my colleague as the "muscle" 1 (coordinating) How bad it is? Imagine a rack full of Ridsects tin can where you see a few litterings on the bottom of the tin cans 1 and as you move one, you see more of them: And after you ended up moved all of the Ridsect tin cans, see there are full of them: So many black litterings, just like rocks. My hypothesis is that the rodents were littering on of the Ridsect tin cans, the place where you held 1 them as you spray your room, as the space between the tin cans are too tiny to enter: know some OC you would argue that rodents can enter the smallest holes but the rodents that see are big: So big that its length is as same as one Ridsect tin can. (Is it called a tin can? Pardon my english though:) @malaysianpaygap youll tiny top IM A WoRK MENTAL HEALTH In DROGRESS AT WORK "When I broke down uncontrollably in front of team and tears just flowed as | rode home, I knew something wasn't right:" my if may; can | get advice from fellow readers, what are the prospects in this career in long term? What should 3 consider in determining my career educations, other @malaysianpaygap opportunities, soft skills? What is the average salary for senior position with 5 years' experience? Should consider exploring other roleslresponsibilities or other careers? What should be cautious of to not go astray? dare 1 say that am still confused on what want to do in my life and still questioning if am on the right track: Iam open for constructive criticism, ideas, advice and even stories from you guys, and | will read all the 1 comments and discussion for this post: Lots of love, cheers to everyone who is struggling <3 adulting is hard. path Head Pharmacist 30 female Degree Bachelor or Pharmacy (Honours) Current Salary RM 9,000 RM1O,OO0 (varies with commission per month) Location: 8 First started of as a contract pharmacist with basic salary 0 RM27OO inclusive of other allowance: Total RM49OO+) offered by KKM (Kementerian 0 Kesihatan Malaysia). Stayed in the government settings for almost 5 years, hoping to get a permanent post as I'm also a JPA scholar bolefersbupermanerat poKtandever 7 benefits such as festivals leave , annual leave, and sO on, we never really the priority to apply first or enjoy: Treatment of permanent pharmacist and contract pharmacist were drastically different, no matter in klinik kesihatan or hospitals in wherever state you are, 90 of your superior will still treat you like a get Occupation: Telecollector Company: MNC Financial Institution (Japan) Race/Age/Sex: Malayl 29/ F Starting salary (2018) RM2020 Current salary (2023) RM2730 Not much career growth: Everything is fun here until they change the collection system to the poor one. 1 cofecdors",t leppreccatstoneer bear the consequences of the failed system: the collectors to achieve nonsense target provide us shitty system: 1 don't feel appreciated and think it's time to 4 jump to a new place but with the same position: want to make collection as my career path: believe i can go far with this career: really appreciate if anyone can suggest the good company to work with as telecollector: Wish me luck and thank youl  They They push they yet Becoming a vet was a childhood dream; but the thought of leaving this industry has already crossed my mind: What chips away at my passion is the verbal abuse, not from colleagues or S bosses, but from clients. With accusations of negligence, not caring, or being all about the money Matter of fact is, most vets don't earn extra commission from the bill spent; we recommend what we feel is best for the pet: We save pets from near death at less than a fraction of the cost of human medicine,Nothing hurts more taara ttreitabawvcondpeorhaecaeSeone 1 owner can't afford it. But at the end f the we cannot do charity; the practice requires money to run; veterinary staff have their families to support; veterinary training is costly The veterinary industry is grossly underpaid and overworked, and it is one of the professions with the highest suicide rates: has day; Started off in a distributor company; moved to an MNC where was promoted to a 8 Account Manager: Due to some circumstance, had to resign (1- year gap). When was back job hunting, pandemic happened but was still able to land a job at another MNC , but for a lower pesktiouchoaseyreeatheoekaTteother ] balance, able to purchase company share on a monthly basis, good HR and colleagues: My experience has only been in the Life Science/Molecular Diagnostics industry: Seriously feel like we're underpaid in this industry: Hoping to make a jump {eetes antbpportentyor oarside) 1 once complete MBA: | enjoy being in this industry; but always feel like can get a whole lot more if take the chance to jump industries. Welcome any thoughtsl suggestions Thanks! Key paid Left previous job because the pay was too low even after years working in the same company and 1 its a very toxic workplace so switched career from Accounting field to Education. Applied this job because love taking care of children (not really into teaching though). Hiring Manager already mentioned there will be no overtime paid, no epf; no socso until probation ended. leave taken 0 wselesseitsielereccordiaig .M here probation is one year: No offer letter given, only verbal and through Whatsapp. During school holiday teachers still need to work because there will be school holiday programme: Compulsory leave only 1 for festive events such as CNY, Hari Raya, Deepavali, Christmas: Any Future wise, corporation is moving towards lower paying countries like India. For my salary, corporation can 10-15 yrs of experienced hire in India; although the hires in India is a bit questionable in terms of their work quality (proven from their work submitted, analysis conducted)  Most of my friends already left for other wouidaneveJoet s00rs juse confeteso 1 a placement with a 53% increment: There's a future in the corporation for sure with CSS, green energy, advanced plastic recycling, etc: but unfortunately the future doesn't belong here in this office, it belongs in India: Well that is outside from my control. Learning wise, every month you need 1 to complete a series of online training: Linkedln training modules are available for free. Resources are immense: If you do not have anything to do, just do/read the training manuals: As a person who loves to read, have no problem in that. get Some advises to the SPM and STPM graduates, if you're looking for a job during the gap to the next stage of education, please avoid "teacher", no matter it's 8 kindergarten, care or tuition centre, unless you are passionate enough. From the experience from my friend and myself; the employers usually treat the teachers quite bad: It's fun to 8 interact with the kids, however the benefits you would always be the least, and you would ve big workload: Please leave as soon as possible if you don't feel comfortable with it, 1 don't waste your time and energy: No one would appreciate your kindness in staying: Respect to all the teachers out there. day got Our design team is very small and would say am very important to the 1 company: However; Im not sure if my pay match the current market salary: (I dont get any commission or other allowance) dont see many post from an ID in MPG maybe because our industry is small and most ID prefer to do freelance than working in a company: 1 So, in there is any fellow ID here, am  igetting enough? paid V  feel grateful with my career now; have flexible timing, no more stress; all the monthly expenses can be covered with the commission that received monthly; at the same time looking forward to upgrade myself to become Financial Adviser Respresentative under Bank Negara Malaysia" Senior Finance Logistics 0 28 Indian 5 years Rm4o00 include allowance 1 MALAYSUANPAYGAP Incident Management (Customer Advocate) 33, Female 9 years exp Selangor BIT ] Current Salary: RMISk + benefits 1 Started off with RMI.8k salary: 3 Worked in research field for 3 years with no pay increment. Did multiple jobs to make a comfortable living: Gave up on research and masters moved to 1 become a junior programmer; to a senior software engineer than as a IT Manager in an overseas company: 1 didn't do chambering upon graduating because didn't think / was cut out for litigation and didn't 1 want to  get my  license if didn't intend to practice. While the work is bearable and the downside is the lack of encouragement for a work-from-home policy from my boomer bosses. 1 On the bright side, the benefits and perks are decent; including travel allowance, dental and optical care, and holiday benefits. fun, Occupation: Bank Executive Company: Hong Leong Bank Race/Age/Sex: Malay 32 Male Starting salary: Rm2400 (2017) Current salary: Rm27o0 (2022) This is the reality of banker. Yes: work and one of the most big company in Malaysia: As an 1 executive also need to do teller job: After banking hour; then can do my actual job. Every single igo back around 9pm. No one appreciate your hardworking: Annual salary 3 increment is around Rm5o-100 only: Bonus is only between 1.5-1.8 Already works for 5 years but salary still below 3000. How to house? How to marry? If an opportunity; will leave this shit bank  day buy got also forgot to mention, even though Fve worked here for over a year and a half don't have annual leaves and medical certificates aren't valid. |'ve had a surgery last month and was 1 (ecoveeegsafhONPA@ teaveveeks @malaysianpaygap 1 Fraporgantagerest fabote teachere is themselves; but for the improvement of early childhood education as a whole. hope that we could be 1 advocated for better wages and support for us educators who play such a critical role in our children's lives. Hi, I've been seeing comments on the recent post stating about high salary at a young age and getting the job because of cable and what 1 not  Id like to share my experience as a legal professional as many are being underpaid as juniors: first job as a legal analyst 1 started with a salary of RM5,500. With one year of experience, jumped and now work as an in- house counsel with a salary of RM6,oOO. My Marketing Manager (B2B) , Telecommunication 32, Chinese, Male 2years plus Kuala Lumpur Diploma, Mass Communication 1 RM1O,OOO ] have been working in Global Advertising; Creative Agency for more than 7 years to joining Client side. Last position was Account Director and was earning slightly more than current but due 1 to the current company is not Tier A company: They have asked to reduce my asking pay which accepted: Throughout my journey; have been moved to lead several prior Telemarketing Exec for MNC in logistics ChineseM/25 3 years working exp employeh in current position v 1 Income: RM5.3k include comm wl 0 deduction Benefits: Unlimited inloutpatient clinic visit insurance Bachelor Degree in Psych (Non- related) 8 considered myself one of the lucky 1 ones to be in the right industry at the right time with the desired skill set. Many may be under the impression that software developers are the ones who keep OT, but it depends on the company culture and team: At least my place is super work life 1 lealanicg opporunitievitbeniors are helpful too_ Lawyer 30/MalaylFemale 5 years Melaka Degree Current salary 2650 minus EPF 1 BDCad ja3 uas RMzsod 1 (include EPF) in Selangor which still considered as poor in Klang Valley: It has been 5 years and I'm still B4O. People thought lawyers are rich but we have been underpaid and overwork since forever: Analytics lead, e-commerce, Indian, Male, 25 ~4 yrs experience 9k per month Analytics professionals are super in demand rn: If you're a fresh in KL please demand ~4k: 3.5k minimum don't accept anything less: 1 Once you're in, start looking to: 1 1) Specialise in one specific area to the point where not many can do what you do. OR 2) Develop decision making and E conflict resolution skills and move up the ladder: Industry is fast moving and every year there are new tools which automate a lot of basic functions. grad "I dedicate 3Omins to 1 hour everyday to read and share with people on what | learned through my social media: Things that | appreciate the most was; friends and random strangers sending me direct messages to thank me about the information that | shared on social media: That boosts my job satisfaction so much" Job: Procurement Industry: Oil & Gas (Trading) Location: KL City Centre Salary: RM5OOO+- (depends on commission) Gender: Female, 29 1 Conepienysizeyea peopiocurement  Hi MPG, just wanna share my experience and reach out to future recruiters_ Property Sales BeaMalate Daeveloper | 3 years, KL Bachelor of Laws J Salary ' RM35OO Commision : 0.2% 0.8% RM3K RM3OK per unit: Rvi6k RM4OK monthly: 1 Briefed: Simple cleaning Reality: Almost all the cleaning works, swept and mopped the 8 floor daily, washed toilet weekly Briefed: Teaching primary students Reality: Being called to take over a class of F5 students 8 MCO hit us up during that time, | wasn't called to take over any online classes, but did called other teachers. Salary payment was delayed for two months without any notice_ 1 Ridiculously; asked me this year; whether would | go back to teach: they they think choosing your job base on what you currently value in your life is the best way to live your life If rn your value is to have as much money as possible, that's too. used to think to as higher salary as | can. But looking myself still struggling with anxiety, think this job is the best for me rn 1 since have alot of free time. 1 During my free time, usually will do some of my hobbies like painting; playing video games and feeding myself about self compassion knowledge in order to overcome anxiety: Living with mental illness is not experience: painful 1 It's not our fault we have mental illness, but it's our job to heal ourselves from mental illness. okay get very do not extra pay for working OT, but 4 out of 6 days a week will end up leaving work late, many times staying back just to go that extra mile for a S patient, skipping lunch because it was so hectic that there wasn't time to eat are just 2 out of many examples that happen often, that people outside the industry don't know about: But this culture should not be celebrated: To all veterinary colleagues, this vetsativet that ssiol beeanieale sre 1 much and help them at the cost of our own time and mental health; is not true. We are human and deserve to have a life outside of work too. Remember that we need to take care of ourselves before we can care for properly care for our patients. get NcEd Hi can mpg share on a local pay but holding APAC or Regional Roles? Origin company from Greece but hiring a headcount in MY. Should the pay be in Myr or USD? chance to know the approximate pay that should request ? Advice,, YOur paid Any 1 No proper lunch hour because need to watch kids all the time so usually eat with them: At Ipm parents will come and pick up kids. Lunch for daycare kids is around 1.3Opm. After 2.3Opm will be nap time for daycare children so that's the only time can breathe for a while During that time will be marking papers, do admin 0 job, clear up classroom etc. Also all the time since morning have to change diapers when soiled, make sure they empty their bladder; make sure kids finish their bottled water; give them breakfast; lunch; tea time, give bath etc_ 1 My wish is want to explore lots of 0 things but with better salary before / settle down: Some says my salary now is quite okay for my age. Perhaps can clarify that have been working for 5 years and I do not live my earning by enoeghonixh Aracudtemtaearaingrateful 1 However; if there are any slots for improvement; then would like to chase the opportunities. Hence, want to upskill myself more in internal audit. Currently my job scope more towards the strategic audit: @malaysianpaygap 1 QUANTITY SURVEYOR 28 Female Degree in QS 1 Salary: 3.5k, 4 years experience. 0 Work has never been easy during pandemic period and im glad i still have a fixed monthly pay, even though never get any increment before. But; would like to seek for advise if this salary rate is somsedeeewithasoeableOfoworking 1 experience I've only worked with this company since last year; so 5.8k then, 5.8k now (almost 1 year) 1 Syeraekobhicaoerwerobably policy of blocking 80% of your week for "work" whereas 20% is for any ad hoc tasks or personal development; well-being, etc: SO people can take their time to go to the gym, going for groceries, fetch 1 their kid(s) , have longer lunches or whatever during work hours, and it's perfectly fine as long as work is done A rack of Ridsect tin cans full of rodents' litterings is only an example of 1 one of the racks in the shop that had to clean off: Imagine having to go back home during lunch hour just to take a "mandi wajib cuz your clothes are dirty from all the rodents' litterings for every single day! Examples of other hard labour includes lifting around 20 sacks 1 garbageg oncecteaning dheoling refrigerators full of_ Iguess you know what is rodents' litterings Talking about disposing garbages, had to dispose a basket full of maggots thats been there for 3 months since joined the company: @malaysianpaygap was a doctor in Klinik Kesihatan previously: bought food and gave my patients small donations sometimes. Elderly people living in rural area didn't have much to spent on transport to come to Klinik Kesihatan: They waited for hours to get a bus to come for appointment: Sometimes went to their house during outreach programme and their living condition is indeed poor: wish we can get more help to those in rural areas. Private tutor 5 years Degree in chemical engineering Master in education Penang 29 9 RM2ZOOO/month 1 This job is awesome if you like to hangout with teenagers and have fun with time not only through studies, but also through music, sports and be part of their lives. 1 teach 7 days a week, 3 approximately 8-9 hours a day: It may seem tiring but as long as yoU have the passion for education, time really does fly when you're having fun! However; it was not that easy: The 1 kindergarten didn't want to pay me because wanted to in July; even though gave 1 month notice to 1 was still under probation that time The manager told me if | quit and leave the kindergarten at the end of July, wouldn't get my salary: | took 1 the risk and agree not to take the salary because chose to accept another offer: For a whole month in July; worked without getting a salary and did that for the sake of helping the children who wanna learn from me because couldn't leave that place 1 just like thatythey stillneed me. quit quit. they How many hours on each job 3 hours ish on each job. But there are days where have to catch up on work after dinner: mostly spend an extra 1-2 hours after dinner to catch up on work or cross off my tomorrow to-do-tasks first: Disclaimer: | work fast so | can finish in 3 hours ish: This is by no means implying my workload is light.  L How's the rest of my look Both jobs are remote so take 2 hours lunch breaks almost every Because of this, sometimes my total working hours become longer but working remotely, you can always on your phone for Tiktok, short movies to unwind yourself or a quick nap (on lighter days) . day day: hop Honestly, the pay is good for the work life balance although as you climb the time based promotion, you will be doing more management work which not many enjoy with the hands-on skillset you have. Now is contract 1 basis, with limited permanent post offered: This field is for you if you truly genuinely loves dentistry or simply have the to survive the Malaysian system: grit would say don't need any to start since it's mostly pre-order and things sell off pretty fast as kinda know my market and the things they are looking for: ?didhouseret dacto tieriyperhaps 1 enquiries and arranging order for delivery: 1 husties snyctore but whedever resume; I'Il get pretty good traction which Im glad as can use the side hustle to cover some of my expenses: 1 The platform use is just FB and IG. Nothing else as just wanna leverage on the FREE platform to reduce my cost @skhutboakny capital day 1 Outsource the "technical how" to lower labor cost country like indial srilanka The why and what, just make it up based on ur convo with boss and upper bosses @malaysianpaygap Make ur manager's boss trust u OR business side trust U, ur manager won't question ur daily life. barely 1 houks Jostobuild rapeoreaddereterdg busy 1 Senior Automotive Technician] Mechanic PJ, Selangor 29 Chinese Male Diploma in Automotive Technology 10 years of experience 1 Current Salary 4.3k (gross) 8 Job Senior scientist (Research on drugs and vaccine) Qualiacaticemae_ PhD, 10 years 3 experience Married (No kids) Company MNC pharmaceutical company located near to Mount Fuji Location Hybrid (Japan; KL) 1 Salary RM2SK per month; bonus 2x per year; RMOOk (bonus) @malaysianpaygap A government teacher's salary is not a secret (it can be googled) . It took me a lot of courage to submit this as have felt inferior with my age and the (comparatively salary figure. My heart used to pound while reading the posts during the first days of this page 1 and was literally having cold sweats_ At times even doubted the need for educators as it seems people can (materially) succeed without the need for teachers _ Though I am aware of the purpose of this page (to create wage traighiareacne curcend aikd fotshere 0 teachers & to also create awareness among the public. Please bear with me as with my age and the years of teaching experience, the perspective of this post may be different than the ones normally posted: low) For the working culture, can rate it 1000/10! Imagine a CFO is talking to you like a friend! My managers are treating me well, will always say thank you and praise me every time have done my work (even it is just 1 the letterhead) am kinda not sO confident in myself; so my managers often telling me have done a good job and so onl They know love to work, SO they will keep asking me if | am satisfied with my current workload or need to add more_ @malaysianpaygap they put they how t0 Maxtmize VOur ANNUAL leaVE 2024 1 DAY LEAVE FOR A 5 DAY HOLIDAY 12 APRIL MALAYSIAN Pavgap Research Officer (Life Science) 26/Melanau-Chinese/Male Singapore MSc Degree 1 Current salary: Near SGD 5,000 Previous salary: RM2,000 Previous location: Penang  At first, wanted to continue PhD, however decided not to due to mostly financial constrain and the 1 stipend is usually not much: Hence, started work as a Research Officer in Penang after finished my MSc with the pay of RMZk. After a month or 2 at this place, felt very drained mentally as don't see the my dream car by 24. However, on the same year when i got the car have lost a large amount of savings from opening kopitiams,cafes and blindly 0 investing: It was at those times, told myself had to learn finance managament. Slowly enrolled myself 1 agetoryaofoitarf epgiaedrdovty the terms of time challenges, but consider myself to be very lucky, having to build a team that is always having each other's back has helped me finish my degree. 1 3 However; on the other side of this realtor world, there is also a dark side into how people 'con' buyers to properties just for their commissons. buy The Asker on Apple Podcasts the ASKER The Asker MalaysianPAYGAP The Asker is a spin-off of MalaysianPAYGAP , movement. Listen on See all Apple Podcasts These links may earn Linktree affiliate revenue Recent episodes How t0 Return a 4 YEAr CAREER G3 Hi, 1 would like an advice. Iused to be a software engineer; doing both back-end and front-end: last job focused on UX since that's where my passion lies, though left the industry about 4 months later due to foreign marriage and immigration to another country: I wish to return to Malaysia and return to the industry again, after more than 4 years of absence. Is there any advice could take to get myself a job again? My "19% EPF" 105. Standard 250 employees or more 19% EPF Chartered Bank Endoscopy Medical Assistant, Private Hospital 26/Male/Malay Salary RM3300 (pre EPF deduction, not including OT around RM4OO+) Location Kuala Lumpur 1 Diploma in Medical Assistant (Registered with active license) Years of experience: 3 years in Nov 2022 @malaysianpaygap started working 2 months in shift 1 working hours after graduation at a private GP clinic with a starting salary RM1,7O0 (basic RMI,400 + fix allowance) , 9 days annual leave, 14 days public holiday; MC only by approval, no medical insurance. Plenty of OT (min 20 hrs) but the rate is very low at RMGIhr: | considered my salary is a bit above average compared to 1 my other classmates whom working in a clinic at the time. Salary increased to RM1,850 after fast track probation of 2 months instead of 3 months plus need to do some admin works as well: There is light at the end of the tunnel, but tell you it's a very very long tunnel: Endless exams, sacrificing family for work and study; doing research and writing papers, and then being transferred here and there (while 1 in the goverment sector)_ Hoever; this career now gives me the opportunity to give back to the community: Having enough 'cushion', i was able to take leave 1 and work with NGOs, do charity 3 work, go on medical missions and outreach projects__without getting paid: A lot of doctors in the private sector do this btw: With a huge income, your income tax is very high, and so is zakat: Settle them with good intent, and be proud 1 that you are doing good. a word to those aspiring or wannabe doctors: choose your pathway well, and give back to society: Dalam rezeki anda, ada hak orang lain". All the best. SO, Entry level executive, wildlife conservation NGO 24, malay, female Almost 2 years KL office, but outstation 1to 2 weeks a month Bachelors degree 1 ] Salary: started at rm1800, after 1 year rm2200 before EPF socso, no other benefits Wildlife conservation is a very niche field and was considered lucky to have a job. But just 8 after 1 year realized could not have this pay if were to live in KL, no negotiations were allowed by my old school ex boss. paid Company type: MNC Increment history in this job: 2800 (first job) (2019 2021) 3700 (second job) (2021 2022) 0 Bvorageurerking hours: office hours and on-call basis Are you happy in your job? many place to grow and learn: Working mostly with expats which are a big plus in my opinion 8 (learning new things everyday) and opportunity to take free IT certs (own initiative). Yes, GIS ANALYST RM2300 inc epf socso (contract based) @malaysianpaygap Female, 27, Malay Degree in social science (planning, management & development) 3 3 years as an admin 1year in GIS SME would classified myself as a late 1 bloomer: joined this field coincidently because have a drone pilot cert which attended the course during PKPB. At first was being offered as a drone pilot but since I'm a female, the company couldn't find a team for me Internal Audit; Manager (Regional role) Multinational Financial Service Provider (retail broking, etstitutional equities, derivatives , 1 32 yrs old, Indian, Male 9 years exp Degree in Acc & Finance RM8,000 gross salary The pros cons: 1. Benefits similar to a bank 2. Culture depends on boss & 1 comp: (Here the boss & colleagues are chill & supportive and transparent on bonuses: Colleagues from other dept. are nice. Previous working place was horrible where the boss is not supportive & hated by the whole SoSince multinational & regional 1 role; work hour can be at night as need to deal with US & Euro offices. Admin/HR, RM52OO Selangor Female; 30, Chinese High School 8-9 years working experience Around 100 staffs RMSOmil sales 1 Tubds@y (lst compsry andhave been here since Started with RM28O0 Average annual bonus is 2-2.5 months  If you experience something, say something:Be part of job fraud fighters! FORMS.GLE The differences. 1. But the living cost, especially income tax also higher abroad: 1 abfoedbiad propereveoibleomigy Core time 10-3, and you can choose to work from home. Current company has flexible timing too. The flexibility must come to office by 9. 3. Efficiency: Not sure if it's a 1 coalayara/ loveg beetingsutrestttoo long, too many attendees, and done face to face. Abroad, the meetings were short; remote; and only the persons are invited: Pay: My key Application Support Engineer It industry 27 years old 1 Malay Female 1 4 years Work Experience Bachelors Degree in Computer Science RM15OOO from full time job 1 2,000 approximate monthly/e26 per hour from part time job ironically; this industry is mainly for Chinese speaking in view of the contractors, suppliers you need to deal are mainly 3 Chinese but i am able to last in this industry in view that there is a small portion of whereby events 0 are done by the goverment hence having a Malay coordinator would 1 be better. believe i am underpaid after 0 comparing to some of admins in RMoffikeand fettinappaig geove 1 leave for home sharp SPM while at some days, i am stuck in office late and even need to come on weekends due to events are bound to be held on saturdays n sundays. paid 1-sentence workplace lesson of the month: Attitude is everything: Pettiness is NOT worth it at work! Bad vibes & will affect U Politely and Instantly reject extra work when you plate is full Treat everyone with kindness and don't expect the same kindness from them: Don't give too much fucks to toxic people: Job: strategy analyst Industry: startup tech Salary pretax 8.8k Age: 29 Location: KL 1 Geardeor enake 8 @malaysianpaygap Year 1: 1.6k + 1.5k avg comms (auto sales) Year 2: 2.8k + Ik meal allowance (hospitality) 0 Year 5:4.5k (agencv) Year 6: 5.25k (agency) Year 6.5 5.25k (msia conglomerate) Year 7: 6.5k (data analyst) Year 7.5 6.8k (strategy tech) Year 8 : 7.5k (strategy tech) Year 8.5 8.8k (strategy tech) Hi MPG Im a Legal Advisor in a trust company and I'm MYR34OO per month: know for sure | am underpaid with my experience (2+ years here, called to the bar prior to joining) - 1 recently discovered newcomers MYR35O0 and 1 despise my work since then: When | brought up the issue to management said it is not for them to decide and I've been told to not share my pay with anyone. So yeah: If anyone wants to join 1 trust company maybe look up the reviews in Glassdoor because the truth is there. There are a lot of things wish | could share. Thankfully I've landed a different job and now serving my notice hope it better: Will tell more once leave, cheers  paid paid got they any gets MALAYSIAS MEDIAN SALARV (NCREASE (8 BELOW ThE Asia DACiFIC AVERAGE OF 5,4% started out with a 3 months probation and was paid weekly of USDZO, then it progressed as sO: S70 > $150 > $300 > $500. My working hours is very flexible 2 and can take unpaid leave any On of that; it's very relaxed as there's no deadlines or anything: Just can't be slacking and making others wait for your task to finish to 8 move forward with the next stage of project. 1 enjoy this work very much because Iget to release updates and content 2 for a community of more than 45k members across the world: Additionally, can choose what kind of work want to work on whether it's backend, frontend, database, analytical, and many more day: top My first and current job are both agricultural related: was started as farm assistant at previous company and it was a great experience as a fresh graduate with amazing peers and boss but unfortunately don't 1 feel to have a better platform for me to gain more experiences and it was hard for me to survive at Selangor with such low pay which causing me to resign. Before decided to resign, had searched a lot of jobs at different platform but mostly the job 1 position with the salary offered are still low for me as my working experience are still lacking for a higher position and better salary: 8 Car Salesman RM15OO + commission 5 years @MALAYSIANPAYGAP experience 1 distrupting the industry: Most shops that's focused on customer volume will be cutting around 15-20 customers per day and work 10-12 hours, 6 days a week: Im lucky enough to work in a mid- range shop where the service is pretty expensive so less 1 customers but with the same pay: 1 Being a barber is physically and mentally taxing especially in those shops that gives out cheap haircuts. Being a barber is nice and all but there's a saying that goes "a good barber is a busy barber" , sO if 're trying to be a professional barber; don't expect it'Il be an easy road ahead: you' Production Supervisor & Coordinator ZocatedeseKlaalg Valley 1 Design Diploma 7 years in the field 1 Started out with 1.8k back then: Now 3.8k including allowance Production for mall festive decoration/stage/booth/ sculptures/designer pieces for showroomletc. Daytime works on mhghabrieatotthecschedioledill 1 early morning: FYI, the salary earned is not a standard range in this industry (with the designation)  But because (1) 1 know my worth (2) know what can deliver; the company agrees to it. To those young generations; 1) if you do something, make sure you understand it. You'Il definitely go far in life when you practice this. 1 2) dont be too transparent to your colleagues/ co-workers 3) always know when to take a break You deserve it CompaNY PERKS 0F maxis RM5OO monthly rebate for permanent staff, covering phone bill/wifi/ Netflix/other subscriptions home office setup Up to RMIOOO/annum for optical, dental, lasik and RM1SOO if your have dependent: AIA insurance coverage for employees and their dependents Festive leave (Raya, Deepavali, Christmas, CNY, Wesak etc) Full health checkup with additional AL Disclaimer: This info is shared by multiple community members of MalaysianPA YGAP for the "Ultimate List of Companies in Malaysia with good Perks" in late 2022. Please further fact-check Maxis for your perusal: Wg 6 etc; day Hence, | started to apply for auditor role in SG, and they offered me SGD4,4O0 in 2022, and increment to SGD4,700 starting Jan 2023. have researched about the living costs in SG, and my salary is considered high for 2 years experience auditor; and | will definitely be able to save a lot. Some of my friends are able to save RM3k to RMIOk every month: My 1 friends are also working at the Big 4 in SG. My previous employer has decided to increase my salary from RM3,800 to RM5,400 in Jan 2023, but declined the offer as know for sure that still cannot save a lot in Malaysia, as compared as working in SG. @malaysianpaygap current job is at a tech MNC , 3 joined around a year ag0 as a Cyber Security Engineer with a starting salary of 5.5k, an increment at the beginning of this year to 7k (excluding benefits and equity). Im really happy where am now, J Goocubteretierecari csaimorirons 1 of stuff eg: smartwatch, internet expenses, massage services, self- improvement fees, fitness memberships, health supplements, mental health treatments; holiday expenses, home office furnitures and more) , 24/7 emotional and wellbeing assistance hotline, working hours aztucettythexbbe ac {caheFH, 1 WFO or WFAnywhere. My got Working for a large advertising MNC headquartered in Europe: 1 work about 1Oam 6pm each day; WFH primarily, office is only for meetingslevents or if we' re required to be present: Most of my colleagues are from all over the world, so it's easier to WFH: @malaysianpaygap 1 Im pretty happy with this job and that's just beside the pay: perks such as mental health breaks are also really valuable to me: Ithink I'm a valuable asset as Im working one for a pretty large (and competitive) network _ everyone's expected to bring their A game on 1. Day Psychology graduates and their current jobs: Studied psychology; working in the finance industry's client facing roles ama Psychology graduate and currently working as a recruitment consultant: Studied psychology, working as a product verification specialist MalAYSiANPAVGAP Freelance Photographer 24 M Chinese 1 year+ experience Around 4k unstable) Bachelor f Business Management 1 thate bhyodian  chooSechedule 1 usual corporate path and pick an unstable job But I'm feeling happy since have the flexibility in terms of working schedule and have more control on my income Project Manager in Tech 27F, Chinese 6 years total Pre-uni, dropout $5,500 Learning a foreign language until business proficiency will open doors, on of making you more foreigetianguage (eciegve qzering 1 of applicants, as compared to hundreds or even thousands. Was cabin crew for 4+ years when joined tech industry without meeting basic requirements nor feleepteoriostofferiencout 8 negotiating since was already offered 20% more but found out later on the range was up to $7,350 Nevertheless still feel reasonably compensated considering my qualifications (or lack thereof) and experience. top 1 passionate and love teaching, this shouldnt be a problem: have heard few stories from kindergarten teachers that they don't get paid enough and no OT or bonus given, making them lose their motivation at times: do understand that part but 1 theircworkery wele-aeingasidering understanding too. We have AL and MC including our school holidays: The company also offers 3x yearly bonus and dental allowance: { Why?: I'm not the kind of person that particularly is hardworking Im content with my current main job (it's my passion) and my salary is enough for me to survive and spend (for now): I've only started working around 3 years ago so I'm not looking to drill my way to become rich: Ijust want to have 1 enough money for me to eat and travel, and I'Il be happy: But since 1 opporppngcaed iwvitashithin my expertise and passion, figured why not The pay is honestly 1 good (250USD/hour is at least RMIOOO/hour)_ The extra money just means can eat more and travel more And don't have to spend too much extra time to work (I love my off & off work hours) _ @idhullouakns try: days Finance Analyst/Accountant; Bankingl RM53O0 1 FecaierInian, 26 Years of experience 3 @malaysianpaygap did CPA and have a first class degree 1 assGCautitirone otattecBig-aauaicit firms. The pay (RM28O0) was so little that had to borrow from my parents 1 traelogowesselairstolecoutie only back our claims 5-6months later: Life was hell there. No proper guidance or mentoring was available got Project Manager Tech Industry M 3 years working experience Ist job, 2020: MYR 2500 2nd job, 2021: MYR 3700 3rd job, early 2022: MYR 5500 4th job, upcoming in late 2022: MYR 7800 1 was in my 2nd job and chasing a promotion and had the dream of doubling my income. Finally | got what wanted, even if it's not where | thought it would be_ What want to touch on more is toxic I workplaces. Ist and 3rd jobs were horrible. doubted my own reality and documentation of my projects. When complained to HR, HR told upper management and they came back to me, blaming my "state of mind": I also heard from HR that they're sorry | "think everyone is against me". Male, 27, I'd like to think I'm a valuable asset to the company: In my first month of employment here, I've been 3 tasked with rebranding their video guidelines. I've worked in various productions and agencies in the last decade and this has been the healthiest work environment I've been in. Overtime and weekend 0 work are not encouraged: We're encouraged to establish clear boundaries, transparency, pushback on unreasonable aq ueetsiEtxegvahindeayoe does 1 appreciation: No one harasses you at night, on weekends, on sick days and on vacation. It's everything wished for when in my previous workplaces. 0 NEED YOUR Comp 2 Salary: 3000 Comp: Investment Bank in KL Position: Finance associate Contract position but able to shift to permanent position based on performance. Working from office, with a lot of benefits provided to the employees. 1of it (epf 14.5% from employee)_ Near to MRT Advice_. Challenges: 1. Competition from other brands: There is so many generic drugs in the market so what pharma 8 companies will do to compete is: Improve their formulation compared to the original Manufacture the drug to be more 8 pleasant to look at (read as: less scary price war 2. Building rapport is definitely a challenge just like OP. As we deal 1 with humans daily; you need to play your cards right: Patience and perseverance is You might not secure a deal during the first meet and that is okay: Just keep trying and the money roll in key: NEEd YOUR Hi everyone, what are some of the highest paying NGOsInon-profit organizations in Malaysia? know of the UN agencies such as UNHRC, UNICEF; UNDP etc: also know that in general, non profits don't pay as much as MNCs. But for those interested in non-profit work, was wondering what are those that pay the best in Malaysia. Thank #Id like to ask a question anonymously: I'm also not sure if it's ok to ask for specific organisation names, so let me knowl Advice,, youl WOMENI TalentCorp CAREER 4090 CIitchuTWCr oust GROup 0f companies CONVENTION SECOND EDITION 2023 Speakers & Panellists Tehmina Kaoosji Anne Abraham Michele Manigart Kimberly Lee Siew Moderator CEO & Chairperson, Chief Strategy Officer, Managing Editor, Managing Director; LeadWomen SEEK Asia makchic Ambition Madiha Fuad Nadira Yusoff Dr: Carol Yip Siew Founder; Founder & CEO; Chief Executive Officer, Recruitment Director; PlusVibes Kiddocare Aged Care Group Hire Seniors 21 October 2023 10.00 AM- Sapphire Ballroom, (Saturday) 5.00 PM Avante Hotel TalentCorpMsia www.talentcorpcommy Bong Yong Yap " Eng disciptine hu Software engineering student sef Ui 1 issues: Working in the govn would mean more patients, not the best work 1 environment in terms of mostly old equipment which are all the 1 feadtributongiactors that could 3 With that said, we do 25 days of annual leave, which is hard to 8 come by these days_and weekends off would be considered a luxury to many: get Not only that, the employer would insult and make fun of the way YOU look and tell you to get a "trendier" haircut or dye your hair to their and even threatened to give a bad review for the intern if the intern would not get a "trendier" haircut or 1 dye their hair The employer mentioned that had an intern once and the intern left without saying anything: Now understand why liking they We're given 16 tickets yearly to on company destinations and about 30 days of annual leave. highly encourage youngsters to apply if you're passionate to fly and not into it just for the money: Flying isn't just about pressing the autopilot and waking up at the destination: We have to monitor 1 aircraft parameters and plan accordingly: The covid 19 pandemic has hit the aviation industry hard and would take some time to recover Most pilots are just now coming out of 1 furlough: It will take a bit of time for the industry to recover: Most of the pilots are still on a paycut with no idea when it will go back to the salary we earned pre covid Pre Covid (March 2020) RM48OOO Post Covid (August 2022)RM28800 fly get Pay Pay Heyl Could you please share more about your job as buyer? Hi, retail buyer usually will deal with consignment supplier; bring in new brand, think idea for the division negotiation with supplier for 8 promotion involve in festive season shooting, administrative work between related dept marketing, IT, A&P: brief and manage operation team  1 would say buyer cum marketing; admin, social media & e-commerce Data Analyst (Manager) , Tech company 29, Chinese, Female 6 years of work experience KL Undergraduate Degree in Science 12,500 basic + 300 allowance 8 (before tax, epf and sosco) ] A lot of people when came across people with high pay, some would have think that perhaps they should venture into the same industrylrole: 1 think what's most 1 important is to understand what's your interest and what's your strength: You will only be able to go beyond and further when you have interest in your job. For those who are unsure what kind of jobl industry best fit you, taking a MBTI test. they try In terms of salary climbing; | set very clear and bold expectations myself with my 1:1 with my boss. 1 Sentences "Iwant to a 30% raise, tell me what need to do to there by next review". (Noticed didn't say promotion) . Don't get me wrong; promotions and increments come hand in hand, but my boss told me that getting the lowest title with the highest pay is better than 0 the highest title with the lowest pay: @malaysianpaygap And there is a reasoning for this, it's easier for your boss to justify why you should be in the next band and your promotion comes easy for your boss to justify: like, get get 1-sentence workplace lesson of the month: You're replaceable at work but not at home It's not bragging to tell team about the good thing you did. Visibility! Collaborate- you are not paid to know everything Adjust your personalities accordingly is for best interest but not about violate principles: Job Country Business Developer Industry o&G Location KL 8 Age : 28 Race Malay Qualification Masters in N Wvoikiee exgerience 3 years Current Salary RM12k Graduated as a top student in my batch at the peak of covid 19 1 period. Alot of layoffs were happening during this period & naturally there wasnt many openings: ended up doing grabcar for a whole year due to this circumstances  The Asker Podcast by MalaysianPAYGAP LABOR LAWNS 101 now on Spotify Now it has been 3.5 months working in the company and would say it's a high learning curve since the first and managed to complete fast track probation (normal period 6 months) with the support from all my senior 1 colleagues and manager after sleepless nights, and inner pressure since day 1. Good news that heard salary adjustment will be made for around 9% after probation (not stated in the offer letter agreement) As for now treat the current job as a platform for me to step further in my 1 career: After reading sharings from MPG, | actually seeking to change field to another industry but unsure which as have my financial goal to earn close to RM1O,OOO per month by 30 y.o. Sadly in the healthcare industry even my 25 years speeraerzeglaercatiomanageegreeh 1 also haven't reached their salary closed to RM7,000. @malaysianpaygap Seeking advices from MPG readers! day MALAVSIAN PAYGAP @malaysianpaygap Ultimate List of Company Perks Love Your Company Perks? Submit to showl Wage Transparency Data Dashboard Only SPM cert and not much of a book fans, but before my dad passed away he exhort me to 3 learn English properly to get more development opportunities in the future__Which really dollSalute 1 Dadl {etter hoed voinguyregeraing thie 1 bottom Working in private hospital means working with Consultants that has different kind of "perangai' and also "fussiness" Everything want to be fast; without considering the fact that you only have two hands and 1 the unit are understaffed. Other than that; so dissapointed to know that the increment is only around 30-100 ringgit per year: Which means even after 10 years 6 working in the same place, my basic will not exceed 3k thus making me wanted to only stay at this place for a few years and then run away to other hospital for bigger basic r go to overseas.  Previously work in same industry in 2015-2020 as Operation Engineer in TNB salary + allowance (RMsOOO RM6OOO) Working pattern: Shift Day or 9 Night 12hrs) Roster 4on4off 4 days working 4days OFF) Every December additional Imonth salary: As a lead in shift, sometimes 1 1 relax sometimes stress due to plant trip or plant problems: AlI responsibility will be on your head: Work life balance is great as you have extra time to spend with family Power plant life is good as U can Opporotntysystewmaynchere. 1 Preparing myself to work in Singapore. Please pray for smooth interview got G gather 0 each month we gather for a goal A social club mpg by A teacher's job besides teaching/ marking books/lesson planning: Judge (competitions) Chauffeur (to bring children out for competitions) Parent (take care of students' welfare) Lawyer (must be witty to argue with good points with "those" students) Janitor (please use your imagination) Clerk (got to type out certificatesl redontertcreatorftypist (crack head to 1 think of test questions & type out the entire paper) Counsellor (for students with issues and their parents) Proofreader (to check other teacher's test papers) Traffic police (to control the traffic outside school during rush hour) orGerlireyg oaparentsaintai main 1 gate) Police (to patrol the canteen/ designated area to maintain discipline) Coach (to train students on a particular sport/co-academic activity) IT technician (to troubleshoot the computerIPA system when they go crazy) Etc etc etc imagine the candle melting guard To those who are thinking to work first; to pay debt, just do it. Everyone has their own mission: I had easily pay 0 my education debt (lumpsum) using my current salary: And planning to stop working when have babies at least 2 million ringgit in saving and starting my own bussiness). Good luck Malaysian, perhaps we can 1 survive during next year economic recession: Avoid spending too much and saving money for the future. @malaysianpaygap Industry: Audit, Accounting & Taxation 27, Malay Degree in Accounting & Finance Mid tier firm 8hr 1Ohr Bonus 1.5 month 2.5 month 1 (Diploma) Tax Assistance 2017 RM18OO 2018 RM23O0 2019 RM26OO < (Degree) Tax Associate/ Senior Associate 2020 RM29OO 2021 RM35OO 2022 RM4O5O 2023 RM47OO Male , 1 So how do i survive? find myself pretty good at making others think i'm expert despite know nothing: I'm good at talking my way out, good at making well-planned roadmap that business think it's masterplan yet it never works. I'm good at convincing my staff that know what they talk about; also good at making small thing 1 aqvads arebusy mY bos shonallythink i'ma con man: @malaysianpaygap Senior Operation Assistant Manager Location Miri Sarawak W Diploma ,chinese Employees of the company 150-250 Company type: SMEs Industry oil and gas supply & services @malaysianpaygap Before confirmation: 2800 (Applied JI Afce cOneratacioExecaove) After promotion as current Pos: 5800(exclude allowance) An Improper Haiku Started a writer; earned two thousand ringgit. Starved myself some days: Now ten years later; Foorkive orthoneitcocers, 1 9 still love writing, | And freelance from time to time, NEVER full time again. In freelance writing, chase people to pay me, Sometimes taking months: 1 It tires me out. Main job: has respect, power;* Freelance: banana: *has its own issues obv 2 Job: Senior Backend Developer Industry: Software Salary pre-tax: USD6OOO Location: Fully-remote Gender/Age/Race: Male/32Malay 1 Gozafipatilc _Raveeloy) s Degree Years of experience: 10 years How big is the company?: ~50 employees 6 Company type: SME in US found myself torn between two worlds, and the pressure was mounting: property career was 1 slnoiogmarage dearggdeclienfsd while immersed in the demanding 1 sertiorroleaggeekand adercorronsoul searched for the right path to take. @malaysianpaygap In the depths of my dilemma; realized that my heart belonged to the property industry: It was where my 0 3 Tettinig gohrivecoaredrebreakiegtof bear: So, made a daring choice -| chose to return to the property world, embracing it wholeheartedly: My How tu MAXIMIZE Vour ANNual LEAVE 2024 2 DAY LEAVE FOR A 6 DAY HOLIDAY 12 SEPT 13 SEPT MALAYSIAN Ravgap This is how an intern should be treated, please set your bar guys!! @malaysianpaygap Female, 21 ylo, Malay 1 hustrterMNc Salary: RM 1000 Working hours: 9 am 6 pm (you may go back early if you have done your job) Location: Selangor Job: Intern Company: Gomen agency 1 Location: somewhere in Selangor Allowance: RMO.OO This company not only discriminates, but sexist too. Every male intern has to do hard labour and hard labour only: No Excel nor monitoring the company system except for the female interns. @malaysianpaygap 1 In term of hygiene, there are rats everywhere: The pest control had captured around 20 of them but still there are some that they couldnt catch them: So it is up to me to seize their poisoned dead bodies around the shop. Yes; it is a gomen agency with a kedai runcit. Guess? "was too hard on myself because of my stubbornness and perfectionist traits. Icouldn't see it when my boss or colleague pointed it out to me back then_ What's wrong with striving for perfection and giving it your all? What was ignoring were the numerous instances in which was unable to control my stress, emotion and behavior:" Hi therel haven't seen any post on my career sO guess I'd sharel GoadBacedwica Gegieeer Boetedical 1 Engineering; local uni. Place: Priv. hospital in KL Basic salary: RM2.8k during probation: RM3k after confirmation_ Allowances: On call: No OT since am in executive position. Fxverenonthomterrestperiencbut 1 medical device distributing company) 23 @malaysianpaygap Gender: Female Race: Malay 8 Age: The work life balance is bad as you need to bring a laptop everywhere even if you go to a water park or supermarket: Need 1 to standby 24H. You also must alert on the phone: 7 In 2019, companies do not pay all employers' EFP but they deduct it from our salary: Till now; they still 1 have not paid our EPF and all the staff have problems applying for a loan: Job: Engineering manager Industry: Oil and Gas Salary Pre-tax: 26k Location: KL Gender:Male 1 Age: 33  Race: Chinese Qualification: Degree in Engineering Years of Experience: 1Oyears Size and Type of Company: MNC (>20k globally) Increment history: Y1 MYR3.SK (Started in MY) L Y4 SGD 4K (moved to SG) Y5 MYR I1k (returned to MY) Y7 MYR 19k Y1O MYR 26k Working Hours: 8-5 weekdays with average 8 hours weekly night calls want to add. After came back 3 from maternity leave , informed them that want to maintain my agreed upon working arrangements, L.e remotely as am exclusively breastfeeding and my newborn refuses the bottle_ also mentioned that will need a few days to arrange for childcare. My manager 1 wath" dnt insotecroeport fordeork at the office daily: Notice given to me to do that was less than 24 hours_  work asa MO will only have an increment of 255 MYR per year; need to mention that got around 800 rgt 1 Seonemj_ecasswvithouftonat allowance actually my basic salary is only RM 4000+. @malaysianpaygap 1 am single so don't have any worries on feeding my kids but do wonder whether my colleagues with similar salary able to fund their families with a 1 limited salary: Its not that am not grateful, but of course a Dr would want to live comfortably and drive at least a good sedan car: My First Job: ~Content Management Specialist;, Analytics and Intelligence, Rm7,386 ~Remote, permanent ~Male, Chinese, 29 ~Bachelor in English Language ~Almost 5 years (3 months shy of 5 years)  1 Seocaidsaton Specialist (translator) , Mobile Technology Company, Rm6,000-Rm7,000 ~Remote, consultant Combined monthly salary Rm13,386-Rm14,386 CONTIMATION BIAS: seeing what we expect to see DESIRABILiTY Bias: seeing what we want to see Hi MPG! 1 EduatacheloalayBusiness Administration (IB) Diploma: TESL Work experience: 5 years 1 Current Salary: RMSk Experience: 1year admin 4 years E-commerce industry @malaysianpaygap 1 Previous salary: RM3.8k Previous location: KL The company is calles S****Works, also formerly known as Cobr* Group. Under it will be the small2 enterprises/companies that were registered based on teams of 5-15 people. You may encounter them 8 with various company names, but they're all just the same. Ever seen young people on the 3 street, with various blue, yellow; green NGO vests? Yep that was US. Basically we raise donations for the NGOs. Our commission starts from RM6O-RM15O per-signup. Mind you, 8 it's per RM5O monthly signup. And yep, it's all from your donations don't know where got the money to pay US, and which part of it goes to the NGO. It's shady; really: they Years of experience: almost 8 years Increment history in this job: from 1.2k 1 to 1.5k This is a private kindy run by a family: Kindergarten in Malaysia are improving, adapting to new ideas like Montessori; play school etc: @malaysianpaygap But most Kindergarten are still "taking 1 Advastaggearsthethisploreeany; finally feeling underpaid and not appreciated: Workloads are piled up. Old syllabus: My advice? Manage your own expectations when deciding to enter an advertisinglagency setting: Constant deadlines, over- performance, burnout; stress, and 0 workllife balance are a norm (sometimes even glorified) which if knew about firsthand; would probably deter me from joining  But what comes with it is a good opportunity to learn (especially as 1 tofveasiogsaddastietcepenaosgon 1 the agency's clientele: Also is a good starting point for my career in the long-run as many companies now look for people with agency experience: Sometimes you may end up 8 specialising in a specific industry without realising depending on how much U engross yourself in the work. In the <1 year of working here feel like i've managed to learn and grow more than in any other job i've held previously (held 2 internships and a contract position both in marketing). But 1 year for web Curator; 4 years for translation: Working remotely failed spm RMSk-8k Graduated spm, married, divorced 0 and became a single mother No one believed in me. Studied time and working time from home. Things 8 took a good turn after consistently enrolling in free classes online to learn about branding etc, mainly to promote myself: My mom has a business & offered me 1.5k a month; work for 7 famwilyardgearme teecatese thepldidnt 1 believe | can do better: For my web Curator role I'm working 40 hours per week on my own pace as long as fulfill the weekly hourly quota: urge anyone that knows any another languages to look for translation job, it's good pay and in demand, as long as you learn to stand your ground with clients. Many of us Msians can speak 3 languages, take advantage of it! Do not let anyone tell you what you can't dol got part part ciinic at 3ttates Ucu (0 the in 2 to to do of 3 of works as well: Our healthcare industry doesn't pay much: But do you know that, even when nurses or medical officers are earning little, they oftentimes fork out their own money to help some patients suffer less? Buying food to make lonely patients happier. Paying for dialysis just because a patient urgently needed it but couldn't get it on time within the system. Ordering and paying for car ride because some patients arejust not blessed with caring family members. 1 whom time. working RMI,850 Salary  after increased fast - months track instead probation need months some plus admin- @malaysianpaygap Mechanical Engineer Malay; Male 3 yrs experience Oil & Gas (Producer) Full time RM69OO, car allowance RM3OO (RM72O0 before deduction) Compsanynogcod oebacegardless if 1 Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur Bachelor or Engineering (Mechanical) (Honours) Ist class degree, Vice Chancellor Aware, Overseas university FYI: O&G producers are companies like RDS (Royal Dutch Shell) , Chevron; ExxonMobil, Total, aramco, Sinopec, Gazprom, BP; Petronas, PTT, sagnghaalary RMBSDG (lherenent 1 5%. Then salary adjustment during 2nd year: The adjustment caused the salary to bump to 6300. Then 3rd year increment 9.5%. 27, Interior Designer in Bukit Jalil, KL Salary: Rm2800 Female, 24, malay Diploma in architecture with 2 years 1 working experience.  work in small SME company; below that 20 employees. only work here for 6 month now: My job requires me to do design proposal with include layout plans, 3D rendering and material selection, prepair 1 srbwmisgioncclaisengithclientaton supplier when needed. Most of it is commercial project and the company also like to participate in tender: What | love about working in SG is the fixed travel time. The MRT is not affected any weather condition, and traffic is never a worry. Back in KL, any rain could mean 2 hours per way. Less commute time here means we have more time to do everything else cooking, workout, language classes, and more sleepl Dollar to dollar, the daily expenses here is way cheapter than Malaysia: The tax rate is also lower. Career wise, the latest tech will always arrive to SG first, so if you've a growth mindset, this place is perfect. by In conclusion, am on a level that's beyond burned out already: I've tried looking for other jobs but no luck I've applied to so many companies that |'ve lost track of which companies haven't applied to 1 am so desperate to find new experience and gain new skills. With this platform, hope my voice is heard and that I'm not alone. I'm not alone in facing frustrations over 1 frustrations and rejections too. To my future employer; hope you can give me a chance and see what can bring to the table because truly, know my capabilities and value, and this current company clearly, doesn't.  Peace and thank youuuul yet:. tasks by myself. Apart from engineering; had the chance to deal with business side of things. love to learn new things for career growth and personal knowledge: However; it feels like the amount of tasks given and salary doesn't tally: 3 At this point of my life, it feels that with the slow progression in salary and the industry seems to be heading into an uncertain phase in M'sia, I'm unsure what should do Even though 2yrs might be a short period but I'm tired of the industry: forteonderenture shouddheuit my 1 industry: I'm worried whether could cope by jumping out of my comfort zone. like the idea of business consultant as would be able to mix around with more people and learn from different industries. Position: Software Engineer Age:31 Gender: Male Race: Chinese Years in current position: 7 1 Salary: 15k Qualification: Degree 1 The curriculum for software profession in Malaysia seems to be steering away from what the industry really needs. If you're a software engineer you need to know how to code and solve 1 problem, and not to make yourself only learn how to use software libraries. This will not get you very far in your career CThe facultyrec faculty recognizes you as a staff 4 but doesn't give you any benefits: They use you as cheap labor to help lecturers in handling tutorials and 3 practical sessions. While the contract stated that need to work 5 hours per week for the faculty; often give me back to back classes amounting up to 15+ hours and claim that 'this is 8 all for your experience' On top of that; still need to run my own project experiments. So on a typical week, had to go into the labs as early as 3am to do some work, handle classes from 8am to 4pm, and finish my 1 experiments as late as they 1Opm: am currently not managing a 1 team but might do so in the future: My title is just a title to climb up the salary ladder more than anything: know a few managers within my company who are in the same position: think my salary does match the 4 market level on an entry-level basis for a digital marketing manager and also for someone who is working in a start-up. A lot of my growth occurred by picking up skills in the digital marketing didusthaeld that previously 1 Fraud Analyst; RM4.Sk 30 yo, Malay; M Bachelor's, MNC in financial services 1 realised there is a pay gap between 1 my colleagues and after we had a private conversation about this which was triggered by this IG account: The pay gap is from MYR 100 MYR 500. Although for some is not a lot, considering my 2 contributions is more and the fact that am rated higher than them for several consecutives rounds of performance reviews, to receive lesser basic salary really leaves a bitter taste in my mouth: Pros of working in this industry: WFH Unlimited Time Off Get in USD You are your own boss Gork footetovertmake more money 1 Cons: No EPF; Socso, Health Insurance Work following US times 9.3Opm to {notzeallya con for me personally) 8 No leave IMO, the good outweighs the bad, can always build your own savings account: 1 Many opportunities for others to join, just have to know where to look: paid paid Assistant Architect Building Design & Constructions 29, Malay; Female 5 years pegabe 1 1 RM1,800 This was my previous job from 4 years ago. 1 quit in 2018 with the same salary when started 5 years Not 1 cent of increment; 1 ever. When first started, was told, This is Kedah, not KL: You cannot demand higher salary:" My first job before this job was in prior Increment history in this job was told that would get an increment after 6 months and then after a year of working: | only an increment after 6 months After hit the one year 1 mark, all heard was the sound of crickets. @malaysianpaygap 1 Tkes Kiadergatteinesprivatraadians oriented kindergarten but treats the teachers poorly: Teachers aren't allowed to accept small gifts (eg 1 cupcakes; biscuits, handmade cards) from children: Teachers aren't allowed to give children stickers (yes stickers)_ Apparently this is all to avoid biases. got The pay varies by the complexity of the IT systems, and how you present yourself during interview: believe SAP or Finance/Banking/ Insurance systems are typically more complex: For the context of my experience, 1 more rojak on business process and business intelligence systems for many domains ie HR, Public Sector; Telco_ Im getting increment ~4-5% a year; 3-4months bonus a year; starting employer EPF of 16% (max is 20% after 6yrs in the 1 company) , unlimited medical coverage, dentalloptical Ik a year; free office parking: work productively around 8hrs/day; Sdayslweek. Im 0 MALAVSIAN Pavgap staycation in Pulau Redang for 2 an [Pad 10 belanja your crush to Gordon Ramsay or De.Wan restaurants and still feel emotionally stable after taking the bill have 111 times of Ilao Ilao with 3 toppings buy MALAVSIAN Pavgap DONT UNDERVALUE RMZK SAVINGSI airasia academy now offers RM2OOO rebate on a selection of 10-Day Tech Bootcamps in Digital Marketing, Data Analytics, Software Engineering; Cloud Infrastructure and Cybersecurity for reskilling: You will also get RM2OOO in tax relief for skill improvement under Belanjawan 2024. $ USE CODE "GIVEMEZK" $ Honestly, I'm not going to get to this figure if rely solely on increment within a company: hopped about 6 times in my ossed. ~oeee, aiceobecarese 1 got 1 blessings as they boost my pay by 20-30%. started with MYR 2750 0 when freshgrad: worked in Consulting environment in the early years, it's easier to jump as was in one project/client then another; so don't feel belonging to the company: To me, jumping to a new company is just like was 1 jumping from one project (that has completed) to another; so it's a similar kind of challenge. SToRIES 0F CAREER SUCCESSTUL SwitCH Atter 30 Leaving one of the biggest audit firms to 2 safeguard mental health: Ministry of Health only look into the posts for the doctor; pharmacists and the dentals but physiotherapists are the abandoned one, although we are working hard same as doctors, and experiencing understaff in this pandemic season: Due to our entry level is diploma and we didn't the actual degree posts, we always been look down by the abletooss etone deselve plisiand  7 job advancement chances same as doctors, dentals and pharmacists. And please, doctors please don't bullied US, we are one independent discipline and should have the autonomy system like in the developed western countries get paid get Head of content (telecommunications) 28 Chailrese 8 2 months Rm9oo0 without epf; socso; perkeso, etc 8 Bachelor degree (international business with marketing) Always have a figure in mind when 1 you change jobs. At least a 20%-30% increase if you think you deserve it: @MALAYSIANPAYGAP LIVB @&A SESSION March 16 , 2022 (WED) 8-8:30pm MalaysianPaygap Discord Stage: "305 BUT S0 WhAt" How a Grab driver turned his life around to earning USDS14O-260klyr. loved every second of working here but was at my breaking point when | had to ask for my payslips MULTIPLE times, timetables changed so often that teachers sO frustrated especially after having to prepare our lesson plans meticulously: There was lack of communication which made it disruptive towards the teachers: 1 was not paid for OT: When asked, was tripped and basically said 1 that was simply working for money (which duh obviously). joined here as a preschool teacher but last week the management referred to me as "intern" When | asked it was 1 apparently because had conducted my internships in the preschool: Which didn't make any sense because if was an intern they shouldn't be cutting my EPF: My internships were for my assignments which lasted maximum time of 8 weeks. got paid guilt started learning during January 2021, downloaded Adobe Premiere Pro and learned everything know from YouTube, very high learning curve; it takes time but YouTube has 1 everything you need to know: At first built relationships with people in online marketing groups on FB, started working with more people and more connections were made. Now don't have to look for clients, clients 8 look for me. Building connections and relationships is more important than knowing any skill Most of the time pay me through 3 Wise, don't really like PayPal interest rates being too high: they definitely think that | am a valuable asset to the company: | have grown so much in my current role thanks to my managers 1 putting their faith in me. gave me the resources to learn & I'Il admit that put in the work but it has a lot to do with the good working culture. J plan on staying at this company 4 for the foreseeable future at least 0 because am very happy and our growth looks very positive. Of course this all depends on whether the company wants to keep me around as well: Being an expakes norsestortheconlpaeyson 1 hire us is if we are better than the local talent so it can go sideways pretty quick as well. They Job: Customer service Company: Crypto MNC Qualification: Bachelor in Economics (3.9 CGPA) 1 Working experience: 1.5 years Starting salary (fresh grad): rm3.5k Current salary (annual raise last year): rmak Working mode: hybrid Shift pattern: any 5 dayslweek, 24/7 1 rotating shift pattern, 9hrs per shift Transport allowance: rmzoo Shift allowance: up to rm1.2k Meal allowance: rm4o/office shift Bonus: 3m (paid in myr; significant cut this due to bear market) year Many people still think that a PhD is all about going to classes and taking exams: So, being a PhD Candidate, | had to navigate through these 3 assumptions as no one will understand you at all. @malaysianpaygap The challenging work description and 3 the extremely low pay gradually demotivates my progress and have even considered committing suicide several times in the lab at midnight. 8 PhD candidates in other countries are treated as legitimate staff with good pay and employee benefits: SO, if you really want to do a PhD or masters in prepared s eeciaGheaplabosiDbeot 1 do a PhD if you do not have the passion, strong support system and a stable mental health: It really drains everything out from you: US Customer Service Rep US Financial Institute (KUL) 24, Chinese, Female Joined this company less than a year ago RMS.SK-RMZK (including %eductioroT hoentive payout and 1 0 Coming from different career backgrounds; this is actually the best career switch |'ve ever done in my life. People's perspective of doing customer service isn't the most ideal, but this company lets 0 you build a career ladder whereby after each year; you get to select where in the company you would like to progress towards to and that kind of opportunity is quite rare_ Ican speak about this Job: Fraud Prevention Location: Hybrid. Office in KL. 1 alcorancr1 3hO0 atlorancort Working hours: 24h rotational shift, with 2 joint days off a week. Qualification: SPM, college dropout: Not a finance companylnot bank related/not ewallet related 2 FIMid-2Os. Work Culture/Environment: -100000/10 The company is slowly becoming a "Family & Friends" company where the Director hires them regardless of their qualification for that position. Most of them get managerialHOD position and they are VERY UNDERQUALIFIED. Because of this, 1 8reananageEM eves toicoveratege butts. Most of the time, we are expected to do extra just so the managers can steal our work and take credit for it. Because of all this, the company has become so toxic that no number of scented diffusers can help us.  1 find it important to blend in and not let anyone know that you're Malaysian until you've proven yourself. Singaporeans have a tendency to band together and bully someone from another country. There will be snide remarks mocking our English: There's just this condescending attitude towards Malaysians as see us as lesser. Again, this is just my experience. There are nice Singaporeans too (usually those higher up the social hierarchy) they Senior Associate 1, Audit Firm_ 24, Malay; Male. Kwalar_umpur: 0 ACCA_ Current salary: RM555O (gross pay with allowance)_ J Going to resign soon, too much 0 stress with the clients and 1 workloads within the firm. Despite that; do recommend people who has the mental capacity and capability to Big 4 working life , 3 but do make sure you will feel happy there, rather than miserable. If you feel miserable , 1 be like me and just tender your resignation: try NEED YOUR Mind you, my friend has nothing, no work experience, just a freshie. As for me; have almost 4 years of working experience prior to applying for this role: Is it worth it to lower myself to that range of salary; being so far away from my hometown so that can hopefully grow from there or should just remain at my current job without relating it to my field of studies. Advice,_ How To Rewire Our DeFAULT Thinking Mode EMbrACE YET-To- KNown Sides OF Truth? React with open mind: Search for reasons why we might be wrong; rather for reasons we must be right: Revise our views based on what we learn 70 position both in marketing) . But approaching near the end of the second half of this year; i'm beginning to feel demotivated to continue moving forward in this industry as i'm constantly exhausted and stressed, worrying about the next fire have to out at work. Would love to hear 1 0 more from other people in the ad world who have faced a similar experience, and what really motivates them to keep going! sorry for the large words, but i feel like this is something worth 8 knowing for the people. havent been seeing a lot of agency posts on here so figure it better to put in my experience for ppl to take from it put The only benefit here is AL. 1 NO BONUS, NO INCREMENT. Im scared to take some risk because / haven't complete my degree but at the same time this job is taking over my mental health: @malaysianpaygap Lately my employer is taking in special kids in our school,eventhough 1 ours is just a normal school and we teachers are not trained for that. Selfish act. This company looks very outgoing, very happy and convincing on the 8 outside But once you go deeper; it's nothing like it: They will keep on motivating you with the morning chants and 'learning' 3 sessions night and day to keep you busy; to distract you from the fact that 're the slave of them: They always remind you to be a Team LeaderlManager/Owner; when the 8 fact is that they use their 'ways' to keep you as the puppet and slave. cringy you'[ 1 Rgbicaoy aorkracasdistryictototioital; Might have to stay here. We have a 3 shifts system; where we work 7 hours for the shift and 10 hours for the 1 night shift: There is no oncall allowance for ED doctors since we work short hours. Compared to my colleagues who work in the ward: get up to 1,200 and plus for the oncall 1 allowance_ @malaysianpaygap day They Job: Teacher (Indian) Age:27 Bachelor in Education TESL Salary: RM34O0 Im currently working as a full time teacher with 4 years of experience and tutoring: So my gross salary per month is RNSOOO+/- including my tutoring classes 1 Once in a while work as a freelance ghostwriter: I'm planning to switch my career into curriculum developer/ instructional designer as I'm getting drained out of this teaching and education system in Malaysia: I'm so confused about what to do next? And how to do? Should | get a masters in either one of these roles? Hi MPG admin! 0 Job: Senior Internal Auditor Company: Local company Location: Kuala Lumpur Sex: Female Race: Malay Nacital status: Single ewygap 1 Experience: 5 years (4 EA + 1IA) Qualification: Diploma in accounting (CGPA 3.98) Salary: RM6,000 (on average per year) Own a car (because of the nature of jobs) , live alone , active lifestyle 1 Age: This company gave me good opportunities however things started going downhill after my pregnancy announcement: 8 Workload piled up & the management became hostile. was dropped off important meetings. | then left for my maternity leave. When back, my working arrangement was forcefully changed and my reporting lines changed: now report to my 1 aslleegue who was at the same level  Writing in to hear if anyone else has experienced this and if anyone has any advice to give regarding this situation: top "Now Im working on getting back on track There are pros of working jobs with fewer responsibilities: Part-time gigs like cleaning and delivering food helped me back on my feet: It took me some time to overcome social perceptions; but now 1 do share about my work because, at the end of the it's all about making an honest living and being content with it: There are life lessons to be learned when MI doing delivery runs too: get day; Job: Learning experience designer (or also known as learning designer; or instructional designer) Industry: professional training and coaching services (we do a bit of 1 ranagenetoo fosintesnge transformations, etc but more to people-driven solutions) Gender; age, race: Female, turning 25 this year; Malay 1 Gipaoficatioeducotio?o Gachcufate Computer Science; YoE in total is about 5 years cause worked while studying  How tu MAXIMizE VOur AnNual LEAVE 2024 3 DAY LEAVE FOR A 6 DAY HOLIDAY 29 OCT 30 OCT , 1 NOV MALAYSiAN Pavgap Backend Engineer; Fin-tech MNC MYR 14,000 Shah Selangor (remote) Male, 17, Malay SPM undergraduate with 4 years technical experience (incl freelance) 4 months into the job 1 8 The company size is around ~200 employees world-wide: Engineering team is expanding, i'm grateful that did well during the technical interview: The best part is the product is widely used within Malaysians which gives me satisfaction seeing the product being used among our community: 1 My colleague are mostly from Dubai, UK, and Mumbai. The timezones and working hours is a bit difficult, but it's necessary as i've school on the morning (til 2pm). Alam, However; not everyone understood my passion for the property industry: faced backlash from friends and 1 Codyevhocque stionechen Yhaculd bright future ahead as a software 1 ehgieeetereey coeitcveratieehend closed a deal or helped someone find their dream home. @malaysianpaygap landed a job as a software engineer; but reality hit me hard: The work 0 3 beeredereveruelagnghendtheaalary was a mere fraction of what was making in the property world: They manages team of sr: engineers & some managers, with average staff 1 reporting to me around ~50 y.o some staff even has daughter same age as mell i find it very weird to manage staff that almost double my agel @malaysianpaygap Here's the thing: Despite leading an engineering team and expected to be expert while drawing high pay, HAVE NO SINGLE CLUE ABOUT MY JOB. 1 YES, | don't code i only have basic understanding of CICD, release, and other tech stuff: | even need to google to use basic Jira filter: Need hi mpg! need opinion from mpg & followers :| just wondering how much should a manager earn? im currently a manager (known as avp here) with 6k salary per month in a foreign bank doing compliance: was previously in a local bank with a salary of RM4.6k: Apparently the head hunter said in the industry the max is 30% increment (im quite naive to believe that). i took a jump on my position senior exec manager: think should be within the range. feel like the company lowballed me since they knew my last drawn salary: know some companies are willing to pay more_ anyhow just wanted an opinion: im on probation now & i plan to talk to my boss about this not sure how my boss will take it: i just think they should pay me at least an average of what the rest of avp in my team is earning: feel so demotivated : ( Advice_, VOuR paid There are some issues regarding the unemployed PhD holders. Yes agreed that there are not many vacancy in our country especially those who are graduated in fundamental science. But you can always choose better option: 3 Go abroad and learn: Bring family if you want to and embrace whatever test u might be dealing with: Phd journey is already hard, you are most likely will survive the world after PhD: To those who are still thinking to 1 continue study, just do it but make sure you have scholarships. Lots of scholarship outside Malaysia fyill You just need to dig more @malaysianpaygap Bright side: Freedom: start at 7:30 a.m. and end at Ip.m: sharp and | am free after that (except that sometimes we do 1 have meetings etc and during exam period where | tapao test papers to mark) _ am a fast-paced worker so with discipline can manage to finish all my work at my big and busy school itself: don't sembang too much: The job (and salary) is secured: Civil servant benefits Can get to know many people 0 (parents & ex-students) of various backgrounds Etc Discord LAUNCH How WOULd Vou Discuss? MPG , was wondering whether can some advice. So, last year joined as a contract worker for this company and was told by my boss that I'Il get a raise. But today was told that I'Il be converted into a permanent employee and get no raise because /'Il be getting 12% employer contribution for EPF: I plan to discuss this with him but IDK what to say: My friends have said | should just jump ship ASAP: Hey get Research and Development Exec, Food Industry 26, Chinese, Female 2yrs 4mths Selangor Regieiorn Food Science with 1 Currently RM3k started job with Rm2.Sk and had 3 times increment including 9 1 passing my probation: Maybe due to MCO, annual increment is only around Rm100-2O0 but good enough: have 16-18days of AL 8 and MC , with RMZk medicall optical claims. 8am-Spm from Mon-Fri sounds good but /'ve 2 never left at Spm, latest I've left officellab was I1pm. learned alot from this job and even though it may be very stressful at times, enjoyed my job still: colleagues 8 are all really nice and it made my working days easier to by, much more bearable. my My get Doctor (private practice) 32 Indian Penang 1 7 Degcee experience 1 RM8OOO/month including allowances, pre-epf deduction With the current economic situation, there's no choice that could do. It's so hard to job opportunities especially for fresh know my salary is too low 8 but think at least have permanent job and need to back up my financial situation by work 1 as a driver: Don't discriminate youngsters who make food delivery or ehailing as easy way to find money: No we don't: It's not easy: ask any 1 riders or drivers, Iam pretty sure most of them have tertiary education: We just victim of the system get grad. grab Try At the end of the nurses in 1 Malaysia need to admit that most of uS are underpaid. As of now; will just follow the flow and if there is bigger opportunity in the future, will go to overseas or maybe just 6 change to different professions: day; My boss treats me really good.Put the whole company in my hands and respect me enough even the slightest move he'd go to me first before he makes a decision__He is just like my dad,my brother;best friend: Always live up with his promises. 3 Problem is,I received an offer recently from a MNC manufactures medical devices 1.Name my price,salary is not a 2rplelety o roem for future 1 development(no further things i can learn in my current company) Should jump or stay? Forget to tell my bonus at least will 3months get "Mental health allowance x 1 & (therapy) sessions" Mental health allowance only in 2022 one time and also free therapeutic sessions 30 years old this Government medical officer 8 5 years of service now Current pay: RMGK (including all allowances + minimum 5-6 oncalls a month, each call nets you RM2OO). 1 aroond Baneriochetaorniog, and 0 lasts until &am the next Your phone will constantly be ringing and you're running all around the hospital. Once you' ve killed yourself for the past 24H, you've gotta pretend like you're not exhausted or hungry; because it's now 8am on a new and 1 you've gotta work summore until Spm: year: day: day, Continued my freelance for 3 months before / got accepted at my current job now: Interview was straight 1 forward but a bit tense on salary part.  asked for RM43O0 but afteremalaysianpaygap negotiation with HR, they only offers me RMIOOO lower without any allowance, 16 days annual leave, 14 days MC, 60 days hospitalization;, RM3O,000 medical insurance, opticall 1 dental claimable at RM250 per annum Seems pretty standard but it's a major upgrade for me. 1 accepted the offer on the 3rd of negotiation since I'm gaining new experience with this hospital: Working in office hour with 5.5 working days instead of 6 full 1 hours shift rotation previously: day 1-sentence workplace lesson of the month: Plan what U want to be next 3 years, and check back is your current work will drive u there. stop taking things personally in the workplace Workplace Lovebomb is a thing Actions speak louder than wordslpromises from bosses: It's all about consistency: You know what you want after working for a few years. Everyone has different learning rates so you'Il somehow get there. 1 Expanding your skill set helps a lot: Build them when you're free. Iused to do 1 hour a week of compulsory learning in my calendar (workday) and I'Il just tune in to tutorials about excel; SQL and power BI. But learning can be anything really. I've also learnt about 0 trerdting: crietbiesG, and mobility @malaysianpaygap Widening your knowledge base just give you so much more horizontal surface information that will somehow be useful someday: Copywriter; Advertising 26,F 4 years exp, 1 year in current role KL BA 4000 Do what you love and it'Il never feel like a job right? Wrong: Do what you love and you'Il never love bugaow Wveirg used eves arorfoyo 1 bc everyone loves to impose their copy and the role of copywriter is essentially reduced to a proofreaderltyper: wish someone told the younger me there's nothing wrong if you dont "love your job. Happiness can come from a fat paycheck too. grad Performance bonus paid to performing staff with minimum zenmtesatiolaracooge, 1 On the downside, the job requires strong mental capacity as it can be such challenging environment having to interact with customer { from all walks of life. But, this is a 1 good place to start for a fresh graduate to learn and enhance interpersonal skill & communication skill: High turnover rate can cause burnout to the agent & team leader but even though it is hard, I am grateful that 1 the bank did not have any pay cut during pandemic have reported the situation to my academic advisor; and my academic advisor called my employer to talk about how she has been mistreating me, the intern: But she never picked up the phone For context, the employer mentioned before that they had an intern once but the intern left without even properly resigning 1 The resigned, left and said understand why the previous intern left" And after that, she immediately called my academic advisor and complained about my bad attitude 'to my academic advisor; but she never acknowledged how She mistreated her intern  day Service Delivery Management Associates Financial Services Back Office 1 Operations MYR 7,500.00 (pre-tax & EPF) Kuala Lumpur Male 27 0 35,000++ Total employees worldwide MNC Fidagcigl Information & Analytics 1 1 got 2 promotion in the course of three years: From an analyst to senior and currently a manager for the same team Salary initially at MYR 3.8k. Working Hours: 9 10 hours daily with an hour break. pretty much 1 work life balance. Malay WOMENI TalentCorp PLUSVIBES cAREERL 4090 CIitchuTWCr oust GROup 0f companies CONVENTION SECOND EDITION 2023 Mental Health: Overcoming Obstacles In Life Virtual Workshop by PlusVibes 21 October 2023 2.00 Pm Zoom Platform (Saturday) 4,00 PM Madiha Fuad Founder; PlusVibes Scan Here to Register TalentCorpMsia www.talentcorpcommy we have to include the awkward positions we find ourselves in while treating our 1 patients leading to neck, upper back and lower back issues in the 1 long run: Which is part of a work hazard, that might end up with us 3 not practicing clinically after awhile: The salary is not enough to save up to for retirement and 3 to cover the cost of future medical issue Also, yet legal Counsel alth We Pam / L1 F A ^ NEEd VOUR Comp 1 Salary: 3000 Comp: MNC Comp in acc, provide data analysis etc located in cyberjaya Position: Intercompany Analyst (Graduate level) Permanent position and after 2 years will get to Junior level positions: working from home (still need to come to office if necessary) but with Little benefits. More benefits on married employees. Getting 1300 allowances for 1 financial year Advice_. Which makes me think that it is possible to have a proper workflow and structure within the creative industry: For the most part when was in agencies 3 especially everything felt like it was done last minute because timeline is always tight and it's becomes so much of a norm that people just kept it since it's too much worklpain to change. J Had to unlearn a lot of what was taught in my previous work environment because over here no one is expected to be reactive to every single message or email: Eveirvwne 'tirrested orkwagend 7 to reach out for assistance when we overwhelmed. The job is fully remote so no office, which means I'm not exposed to any office politics if do exist. And debunks all the old timey employers who think the only effective way to run a business is for everyone to be in an office. get they Costing Specialist Automotive manufacturing 2.5 years in same field & industry 26yrs old; female Selangor Bachelor's Degree in International Finance RM3750 (Gross pay include 1 allowance) 1 Jumped from previous job after working 1.5years with RM25OO fresh grad salary: 55% of increment which is incredible and unbelievable. But in current ang Dasky becOee yore donouith 1 one_ Super stressful environment; unstable supporting departments and devil "boss" from commercial which have to comply apart from complying my direct superior: Direct superior is a super nice woman: How?: These consultations are managed by certain partiesl companies as middle person to connect consultants (people with experiences in a certain field) with clients (who are looking to know more about this field and requires advices/knowledge). 1 was approached by one of the people 1 (acting as the middle person) and 1 progeteredVverify fty bacegroong, skill sets & knowledge expertise field etc:) . So whenever they have 3 clients matching my expertise, they would come to me and ask me if I'm interested and provide more details then plan a schedule for the virtual meet-up. Most clients are from overseas so all consultations are done online. @sikhulloknx Engineering Intern Male, 21, KL Currently pursuing: BEng Mechanical Engineering Offered: RM2S/day (~around RMSOO/month) Oppoertunitcokiogcoorpeee ships 1 mandatory industrial training: One of the companies replied to ask if can extend my internship duration, which / agreed to. However; there hasn't been any response for 3 weeks after the initial email reply, despite sending 2 follow ups.  continued applying to other companies and one offered RM25/ 1 working which adds up to RMsOO/month: This is lower than the RM8OO/month that some of my peers are getting: day And for the teaching materials, 1 school will provide us with whatever we need and we can also claim with receipts from the school: Meals are provided as you can eat with the children: Our preparing materials session is around children nap time 1:45pm 33Opm so we don't need 1 to bring schoolwork home. feel so lucky with this opportunity and keen to grow better everyday: Please know that there is school that is willingly to pay you better than usual wage for kindy teachers and work 1 life balance Job: Cybersecurity Analyst L2 1 Genction Maeeangor Age: 29 Qulaification: Master in Mathematics Experience: 2 years experience in cybersecurity as level 1 & level 2 Salary: RM 6000 (Basic) + RM 600 (Allowances; Phone, Parking, etc) I've been in the cybersecurity field 1 for 2 years: can tell you if you think it's a hot job market that will allow you to name your price and easily find a job, you're right! Psychology graduates and their current jobs: Degree in HR Development;, Masters in Psychology: Currently an HR Business Partner: Studied Psychology, Global Studies&Archaeology: Currently a Psych&Socio lecturer Studied Business Psychology; doing Production planning now MALAYSiANPAVGAP Civil Engineer; Consultant Firm 24, Female 1y Pahang B.Eng Salary: RMI.Sk (just basic, no 3 allowance, no overtime) 1 8.30-5.30, Mon-Fri job think I've been very underpaid and am now looking for new job. 1 This position with this kind of salary is just sucks. cannot save much, just barely living: Thankfully I'm W my parents and my office is like 6mins drive. If not; | seriously don't know how |'Il survive. Please pray that I'Il get better offer in the near future. Thank you: Malay, living 18 months later; | could land an foterVienge Ofntecb f9,ooraiteech 1 doing my research this timel) with J a non-tech background: Grateful for opportunities to pivot career into tech and fintech; largely thanks to knowing a foreign language and soft skills from time as cabin crewl 8 my Job: Kindergarten English Teacher Fresh Graduate 1 Bala2J EBOOlR for probation, 2500MYR after: Landed my first job right after graduating: I've been teaching secondary students only before this so this is something new for me. 1 Teaching children around 3-7 years old, shift is 2 days for daycare shift (7:45am 6.30pm) and 3 days (7:45am 330pm). colleagues are very helpful and the principle is really- id say a good leader: Working with children is quite but fun { at the same time. If you're passionate and love teaching, this My tiring Psychology graduates and their current jobs: Study psychology and work as early childhood teacher Industrial and organisational psychology: Im in Talent Acquisition Studied psychology: Started in corporate but happier now as a teacher MalAYSiANPAVGAP Cybersecurity jobs are so in 1 demand at that time until now: saw that potential and | started to explore new opportunity: In 2 years, already with 4 companies: With the some good skill sets, you can demand for the good salary package My advice: Cybersecurity is on demand now: 1 basic syberseckritynceanoirone YouTube, Linkedln and others platforms: work Seniors look down on you and most of the meetings were not conducted in English: even had to work when was 1 siandemabecausignededurinoutaehave killed me, if COVID didn't. @malaysianpaygap Thankfully due to my high CGPA and 1 gracghte Margemtente ainee program few weeks later and was paid RM43OO. It was an amazing exposure 1 and was really happy to meet alot of people from various education backgrounds. A year later; was absorbed into Finance department: As, Early Childhood Educator 24/Chinese/Female 1year 2 RM1716 (no allowance) Most of us would probably think that being an early childhood educator is the happiest job in the J world: Nonetheless; we work from 1 7.30am till the last kid goes home: Very much overworked and underpaid as we have to prepare the lesson plans; prepare the materials, clean up the mess, shower the kids, change their diapers, put them to sleep; feed them, as well as keeping them 1 entertained all the time. We are basically like nannies with a degree: Oh | wanted to add: This was one of the few places where they respected my time. If Im on vacation or even need to step out to settle adult matters (banking my behated) , no one bothers me until my status is "Back in Office" @malaysianpaygap L The pay bump; | straight up asked for it! | told them that since I've had a lot of experience and have a varied portfolio; they'Il be paying for is experience and adaptability (which is a tough skill to teach in the creative industry) . It was then resigned; without an offer on the table: Lucky the notice period was 2 months: Enough time for me to feel sane and pick myself up before going to interviews. have autism, ADHD and anxiety: 1 need things to be in order for me to function: like work that makes me make things to be in order: My therapist told me that due to how my brain is wired, thrive in an environment where my voice holds power and my thoughts are respected 1 as an equal: did not that at my 3rd job. They thought because was too young, my expertise in management cannot be believed. get 3 Video editorlanimator (marketing) , Tech/Learning and Development (Remote) Salary: RMIIk Female, mid 30s, Malay 13 years experience 40+ ppl in the org: SG based SeartourNeareolexibleo bcrelaents 1 4pm KLISG time are the most active as most staff based in SEA yet. Junior data analyst 24, Malay, Female 1.25 years in the job Flexible working place, depends on client feasibility to provide their database remotely or not Bachelor in Actuarial Studies RM3O50 excluding fixed 8 allowance + high bonus 1 Working at a small company has it pros n cons: There are higher moentary benefits but the workload is quite high during peak 1 season. Job is contract based and is renewed yearly: The flexibility of working from officelwfh depends on client: Might have to much on hand if given more than two projects to work on. In my opinion for a data analyst u should be able to both write codes and give really good conclusion on your finding: And also is able to troubleshoot precisely: But, yesterday DS Anwar has been appointed as PM and feel very grateful as there is a hope that will be able to come back to KL and afford that crazy expensive house in 5 10 years: am just a rakyat marhaen, who wanted to live comfortably in Malaysia, but now; Malaysia can't provide me that, so left the country 1 to have a better quality of life. This is a sad truth; as a professional in Malaysia is not able to save a lot, unless you let go a lot of things am still single, | cannot imagine how married ppl especially with kids are living in Malaysia who earn lower than me @malaysianpaygap Job: intern Salary: 300 Location: Cheras Gender; age, race: Male , 22, Cina Small company 1 This company takes advantage of their intern: | was the only intern at the time and instead of doing actual photography stuff or anything related to media, would make me sweet the floor and do other cleaning work instead: they 6 tea supplier SRvc 2 2 1 also want to advise all Malaysians that everyone may not have made the right decision after graduating (I lost 1.5 years doing something don't like) but eventually you'Il enjoy doing what you like once you've discovered yourself: 0 Take your time and you'Il there @malaysianpaygap eventuallyl get 1-sentence workplace lesson of the month: Type something: MALAVSIAN 'Pavgap always complain to my teammate that my goverment clients are either unorganised or too blur to do an event well: If was to leave this company and be able to join any goverment cooistinaeod} banheerinveely do 3 better but sadly im stuck in the same company as i am too comfortable in the same company: J lastly, to be honest; i am surving this same company for sO long as feel that have a good 8 boss that supports and backs me 42twelears tisee Gecidesure eoive 1 the management might restructure our department but for now; | enjoy my journey as long as iam able to work to ensure money comes in for my family: please pray for me to be able to be promoted to senior exec soon tine , Senior Analyst; Finance GLC 29, F 6 years KL Bachelors degree 1 RM8,400 gross (base + 1 allowance) Love that we are sharing pay fotogltsforourothry Recarsber 1 can afford to increase CEO's salary 10% yearly (sometimes that equates to millions) , we too can demand a bigger piece of the pie. they During this tough time, 8 preservered & applied for jobs non Grab driver by day & a job hunter by night: | remember that was only making RM3k when | doing N However; was fully content with as was meeting with people from all walks of life). This is when realized am naturally good at interacting with people. 1 used this strength & started to broaden my job search to other sectors i.e : consulting, sales freelancing & etc. stop: grab. SO, Job: Buyer Position: Executive Industry: Retail Location: Kuala Lumpur Gross Salary: RM 3.2 K Gender: Female Race: Chinese 8 Xeerszof Qualification: 2 years Salary Histrory:  First Company: RM 3.2 K Average Working Hours: 9 am 6.20 pm (Five Working Days) Pilot Low Cost Airline Captain Male, 34y0 10+ years working experience. This has been my first job ever since / graduated from flight school: People always assume that pilots in low cost airlines are paid peanuts. 1 This is not true have often times earned more than pilots working in full service airlines_ However you do end up working slightly more than pilots in full service airlines, but its not really that bad: As an Captain you are expected to be 1 responsible for every single aspect of the flight you are conducting: At times it can get very very stressful: Expect to work about 15 days a month on a roster pattern: Sometimes work starts at 4am, sometimes 1Opm: Fatigue is quite common amongst pilots. hey fully "Fancy rock climbing? We got a rock climbing wall inside our event centerl" more Fancy rock climbing? We got a rock climbing wall inside our event centerl! CNC Machinist in local SME(Manufacturing Industry) 24 years old 3 Chinese Male 0 Incoming April will be 6 years in the same company which is nearby my place(1Omins away) 1 Current salary is RMSk Quite an achievement I'd say for a youth at my age Mobile Developer; Fintech MNC 22, East MY Bumi; Male <6 months, probation, first job KL Bach: Computer Science RM45OO, before deductions Bonus 2-3 months 1 Just wanna say, super grateful and happy landed this as my first job right after graduation especially during these times. Company is great, awesome coworkersl managers, great work life balance, 3 hybrid wfh/wfo setup theres not much more can ask for: Quick tip for my fellow CSISE comrades, although employers look for some level of hardskills, they're also 3 highly interested in your softskills if not more. Keep on brushing up your resumelportfolio, get some extracurricular stuff on there, and can promise you there is an abundance amount of jobs to be filled in this field and at this pay: Consultant surgeon 2 48 Malay, male Johor Bahru 1 Medical degree & Masters in 3 Surgery 13 years in Gov't service 8 years in Private RM 120k-200k/mth 1 POWER WEALTH LOGIC RESPECT HONESTY TIMELINESS September GOAL: BURN 95 VALUES To FIND oUT WHO You REALL Y ARE RM38/pax WITH COOKIES & TEA ON 30/9 (10.30-1PM) STUDIO RED Sam Mansion Flat LOVE? Thank you for the testers participated in feedback round: Same old, will turn collected info into a dashboard. Utilize it as precaution and prevention. Share it out! Form link is on the bio under Linktree. Shift Charge Engineer in Power 1 Plant Industry Energy & Power ) 30, Malay Male 6-7yrs experienced (total) , Degree Mechanical Engineering 1 Gross Salary Basic + Allowance + 1 OT (RMI1OOO RM14OOO) EPF employer deduction 19% Previously work in same industry in 2015-2020 as Operation Engineer in TNB salary + allowance (RMsooO RMGOOO) 1 thought /'Il be focusing on manpower management since had my major in HR: However; after the pandemic, 1 told myself that must step out from 1 chalengfert zeneinddschoosednever been: @malaysianpaygap Everything in operation industry is totally massive. have to learn from the beginning: my supervisor only share me the working procedure: have to discover Jl thcriftcolg proceme bnd rental byth using one month to understand and ease of use. Influencer Marketing Specialist, non-local DTC e-commerce / very occasional freelance writer 32/Cl F 1 year current (10 years wage slave) Remote Bachelor's in English Ffeetagceingiteskedefordlepeteht on 1 type/ amount of research/ legwork] time needed) but generally ask for rm4o0-rm5o0 for articles ranging from 700 -1,000 words. Usually, am told I'm too expensive by local companies sO bid them adieu: In my experience, clients who quibble about the cost usually also have the most to say about edits/ don't 1 know how to give proper constructive feedback ("I don't like this sentence, can change? Change to what? You're the writer; you change and let me see if it's right or not:" SO make it less painful by simply not taking the job chat 100% anonymously better discussion thread experience 2417 host your own "Ask Me Anything" exchange useful resources easy to use voice chat; live talks, events 7. 80-90% is already an A, right? School is no different in business. If you obtain 80-90% of what you desire, you have won: am not sure about others but most probably phd graduands got the 3 similar amount of money: Depends to the company; also I am in pharma. Many Malaysian in Japan works there after first degree, so maybe they got slightly lower than my salary: areperat thanager may get higher 1 My father used to say that teachers are people who assist in the progress of everyone else's but themselves: to an extent, this is true: Much of our unhappiness is caused by 1 injustice. and in this case, social justice (in terms of wage) doesn't materialise overnight especially in the government sector: have always believed that whatever work done must be done having a true reeationgaad individushaprogreosand 0 the advancement of a community: constantly remind myself of the real reason of why someone decides to be an educator: If you're keen on being a software deveaopentaleansteed of jumping 1 directly into frameworks. Bootcamps nowadays emphatises frameworks a lot Being a non comp-sci graduate, | got to learn the fundamentals on my own: However it helped me a lot as technical interviews for high paying jobs really care about your interedge about how things work 1 How tu MAXtMIzZE Vour ANnual LEAVE 2024 2 DAY LEAVE FOR A 5 DAY HOLIDAY 4 JUL - 5 JUL MALAYSIAN Pavgap Some of my friends thinking that having a company to intern is good enough: 1 would like to share my current internship company which can set the bar to the future 1 undergraduates! = Before intern with this company; | have rejected 2 offers from other companies (one is MNC, another one is a financial institution) wonder if people perceive me as  chaleenging odsecether new job in the digital marketing field. Although have extensive knowledge in Facebook ads dating back to 2014, lack official 1 Cetenteytpicationg Googecheledesign on Coursera, which could open up opportunities for a potential career change: advice about the job market and the best steps to take next would be highly appreciated: @malaysianpaygap 1 Any started my career on 2011 with MYR18O0 salary; then jumping to four companies to bump my salary 8 until MYR6OOO. Then on 2017 | moved to Singapore for ajob with SGD4OOO salary: Then at the end of 2019 moved to New Zealand; but Covid happen so had to settle with a job with NZD54OO salary and 1 stayed for 2 years. While I'm in New Zealand got my current job then moved back to Malaysia. If people ask me which country is better between SG and NZ, think SG is better financial wise with lower 8 living cost and lower income tax (which is 2%/, unlike 20% in NZ). But NZ is better if you're looking for work life balance and milder climate. Work as internal auditor is fine as we still have the work life balance we needed. Sometimes it is a bit overwhelming, but challenges mean 1 we can strive further. like my job because it is a non-routine work, and every was given the chance to discover new things and understand new things. @malaysianpaygap Due to the course of my work, need [ to travel frequently; and more than 70%/ of my time. Hence, this type job requires commitment where my time spent with families and friends are lesser: This is because will be away from Malaysia (to various countries) for longer term (can reach up to two months) for one audit 1 assignment: Kindly noted that audit assignments varied from 5 _ 8 assignments annually: day of 2023: from 4k+5.8k+6k to only 5.8k (took less jobs) honestly living a chill life now with only a job to worry about and no freelancing for now (yes, it is still 1 focuethiogld beko0myselsand _ personal growth and well-being: | travel more frequently (cause less things to worry about) although sure, money can be a concern but not an issue Company typelsize: MNC but also 1 SME, up to 200 employees globally (tbh idk the figures, probably less than this but we do have contractors so I'm just bloating the numbers a little bit) my Do you think you are a valuable asset? Yes as have been transparent with 1 my leadership team on aspiration, which compliment with my salary adjustment:  Takeaways: It's ok to ensure your voice is being heard in your company but do not fall in to the "| expect" trap. Each L shove Seiontvzhlyberericiel It's a fine gray line between "high maintenance vs high standard" my The worse is to come had to 1 clean up their (rodents') litterings everywhere around the essential items racks around the shop. Imagine exposing yourself to leptospirosis while having no insurance protection by company: @malaysianpaygap had to do it alone cuz apparently its 1 beyond the job scope and pay of the cleaner; which apparently only had one. Logic? Even the boomer seniors are just looking and not doing anything to help. mean its like they have any job to do while waiting the customers to come_ yet they Graphic Designer at football club in malaysia 30, Malay; Male 6 Years Botheloa egree 1 1 Rm3500 Starting in 2016 with Basic 2800 per month (dead salary) . 1 got an increase to RM35O0 in 2018 till now after i sent a notice 1 Salaries will come in erratically according to the circumstances of the big boss. Usually 13hb and above_ Been working for minus 3 pared fobrwitf peortisnOK tVeearast 1 lot of new things Only set back that can see is there's not much for career advancement unless you become top management positions in this hospital: But for you to experience 1-2 years, OK lah: @malaysianpaygap Shgiieerh-f oeaoytbineredteang an 1 in-house BME for hospitals definitely pays less than if you were to become field service engineers in medical devices principal or distributor (cont) 8 plus gain The company work for as a curator is called 0 @ When the data entry team enters the data the system,; we (web curator) 1 double checks them and in additional information, verifying the data coming from the data entry side t8ah- (gegorieheer) wileoubeeZheck 1 the curator team's work to ensure the quality of the data: put spent other all the to to for my patients! own This is true. As a doctor in klinik kesihatan myself; i have to often time give money to my patients to food. Or to formula milk for their babies Ieven My own money drive hospitals way loan medications Using money: buy buy Here comes a long confession, and this will save the future generations to not fall in their trapl 8 Job: Brand Ambassador/Sales Exec: Industry: NGO Male, 26, Malay 3 Salary: Full-comm based, RMO-600 weekly: No EPFISocso Working hrs: 8.30AM-7.30PM, not including night sessions: 6 a week: 8 Company size differs between sub- company: It's quite confusing: days Job Preschool Teacher (Full time) (Zam to 3pm) & 1 Home tuition (part time) Salary preschool Basic RM1SOO + allowance RM 250 tuition +- Rm8o0 per month @malaysianpaygap Location: Petaling Jaya Gender; Female 1 r9cez6ian Qualification - SPM & currently doing Bachelors in Edu part time 26y0  Hi MPG , have been a fan: |am currently in overemployed mode_ Overemployment refers to individuals that work two or more full-time jobs, usually both remote. The term first started on Reddit and 1 Ze6Rederbeererowloylee rersor has mention this is because notice there hasn't been any posts on here related to overemployment; which is why would like to share my story: big "m Not BIASED LAH the usual flaws in our thinking that prevent us from befriending the truth 1 In 2017, started my first job as a waitress in KL. That time, stayed with my parents in Rawang: But chose to work in KL because wanted to escape from there. That time, | was 20 years old and just finished my diploma: worked at there for 2 1 months to a new phone because only used Nokia before that: bought a new phone with my first salary that time, Vivo brand: forgot what model but remembered that phone was RM65O salary that time, was RM8OO @malaysianpaygap 1 get My Business Arch Sr Analyst, IT 31,Malay; Female 4.5 years KL Masters RM6180 (start W rm4.1k) 0 My Ist working experience, and pay wise is so above market at the beginning: Need to have very good networking then can only vericgnizod tOhave DroVeotioong 1 overdue promotion after Ayears in the company: you need to work in very fast pace environment and meet the client's demand which is not healthy at all: 1 use to be very underpaid, i dont dare to demand for more bcs i dont have degree tho have the skills. Here is my salary progression. Ist company 2021 rmi.Sk Znd company 2021 rm1.8k (resign with 2k) 1 3nd company 2022 til now rm2.8 Job scope mainly supporting manufacturing sites all over the world with technical recommendations; insights, and some troubleshooting: Sounds so simple on paper; but trust 1 me, the actual work is crazy: Crazy hard, demanding; but when you are doing it and obtained the outcomes, 'Il be satisfied. Culture wise is okay, and heavily dependent on which sites you support: American sites tend to be all talk, work less. Europe sites tend to be less talk, more work: AP site, hahahhaha, kiasu all the way: 1 100% efficient? Make it 110%. Saved 10 million maintenance cost? Make it 15 million next year: you'| This submission is written partially in response to the recent viral post involving a celebrity publicly defaming a veterinary practice for turning away their as they were closing (a S perfectly reasonable for them to do as they would not have staff available to look after the that was already in critical condition) , with conveniently omitted details, and the scathing and disheartening comments against veterinary professionals by the general public that can be seen on the related posts: Forpyolr referaceeookc coml 1 sameerahtahirlpostsl pfbidO2IrF89sZxbhbHpQrFmCZANSk afb3v4Dh8JQfiBzwceGG4GSdZx39V V3auSxrDsAvql https:Ilwww.instagram com/pl CgwTIACJJ_ul pet thing pet Lecturer at private college (Klang Valley) 30 male malay Qualification: Master RM38O0 (no allowance & before deduction) Started with RM25O0 in 2017. Salary increased due to promotion as senior lecturer cum programme leader: people have the 1 feescom peptice collegehereition 1 expensive, lecturers earn a lot: The answer is NO. Apart from teaching for more than 20 hours a week; lecturers need to back up marketing, complete administrative tasks, handling students' issues, ISO, MyQuest, MQA, audit etc. This is the norm in most colleges except the selected few: Many 1 Taking care of children isn't a problem for me but teaching a large group of class is very challenging since they're so little and didn't really follow instruction. Also the 1 wage is low sometimes Im so unmotivated to go to work even though | love working with kids. 1 Civil Engineer; Construction Klang Valley Male, 24, Chinese Current Salary: RM3,800 (Incl: Allowances, Basic <RM3k) 3 Qualification: Bachelor's in Civil Engineering (Hons) Years of experience: 2yrs 1 Average working hours: 8hrs/day Currently working in a midsize construction company (Ltd:) and had beiiccrererst GORM2OO Oithin 1 2yrs. Honestly speaking, | don't know if should consider myself underpaid in this industry at this position. Venturing into the construction industry cluelessly, with the help of superiors and colleagues, can now complete Job: Fast Track Full Time PhD 3 Candidate (Biotechnology) Location: Johor Male, 24, Chinese @malaysianpaygap 3 Allowance (aka stipend): RM 2000/ month No EPF, no medical benefits, no 8 transportation allowance and 12 days annual leave. After graduating my bachelor's degree, immediately did a fast track PhD route that allows me to skip my masters and jump directly onboard to get my PhD. 1 Freelance Video Editor 1 Year Experience 24 Years OldjMix/Female Studied Until SPM Sabah RMZOKIMonth 1 came from a lower class family, so couldn't afford to continue my studies. Went straight to work so | could take care of my family: |'ve worked as a cabin crew before for 8 both low cost and national airlines: Decided to leave because there were more cons than pros: During covid 2021, | started learning video editing 1 while stuck at home. After 1 Year make more than | ever thought could make; it really changed my mindset around money: Wangsa Maju, with the same salary; RM1,8O0. | did not demand anything because was a fresh graduate. Lasted only 6 months there. Almost everyday OT, no neekendent o aibbebolicaythoset 1 added hours. The boss temper was unbearable also. My second 1 job in Kedah, was left with anxiety and depression: I lasted 5 years only because do not want to leave my parents, the job is near to my hometown and it was eacencel/hardliteldindefiohe job in 1 2018, when should have left it earlier. left not only my job, but also the industry | graduated from and familiar with_ Job early childhood educator (7.45am-1.45pm) Salary rmi.4k 1 Allowance @malaysianpaygap rm1oo Location Bukit Mertajam 1 agedeg: female race Indian Qualifications SPM, ABRSM (piano) , Diploma in ECE and Bachelors in ECE 1 Years of experience almost 5 years  The gap happened because had a lower starting salary which | didn't realise it. After 3 years in this 1 company; and after all my contributions, am still not getting higher or at least the same as them: Waiting for this latest round of bonus payout,; appraisal and increment: If they're less than 2 satisfactory, will definitely made my intention to leave obvious. "Igot married, and 1 realised this job was not for me anymore, because | got too stressed easily and handling baby and work was too difficult for me. 1 realised my interest inthe subject of personal finance; so | left the Audit Firm and join the investment and insurance industry at 30 years old. The practical steps that | took before taking the decision to leave was observing the financial planner lifestyle; their work and all the certificates that they took really did my research how to survive in this industry" Business Analyst (IT) , GLC. MYR 12.5k, KL Degree, 11 years of working in various industries (as tech spanned across many industries). [ 9 Im working in a company with around 2k employees: "Industry" is a broad term for BA. For example, a BA can work in an Insurance MNC and supporting HR system users, or Finance or Accounting system users, or SAP systems: So which industry this (sarralebelongIRoi3 Is Finance , is 1 it Accounting? I'm having hard time to define the real industry belong to. MALAVSIAN Pavgap If you have RMZK 'extra' , what would you do? Physiotherapist U29, Government hospital Chinese, Female 1Oth years Selangor Diploma, and upgraded to Bachelor degree Current: Started in 1.6k in the first year; 3.2k basics allowances 1 rm800 (underpaid) ratlappreciatedr Yhe' Health really 7 physiotherapists in the healthcare settings. of us trained in diploma level, but after we upgraded to Bachelor degree, we don't deserve the job position and salaries that we should get: In this industry we only have the limited resources of positions in degree level posts compare to other medical disciplines like doctor; pharmacist; dental and etc: 31, Many "At 22, worked for one of the biggest audit firm in Malaysia asan Audit Associate after graduation: The starting salary was above average; but the workload was too much: My mental health was jeopardized: | developed anxiety as my superior would ring my WhatsApp past IOpm, asking about work That lasted for years:" Digital Marketing Manager; IT & Healthcare, RMZOOO/ Month Kuala Lumpur; Male; 25, Pakistani 4 Years of experience The company work for is around 1 75-80 employees so pretty much a start-up, joined it when it had around 20 employees and was the first expatriate in the company: ) Sierce frota oochis job50osalary 4 3850 -->5000 - -> 7000. The majority of my increment happened in the last two years: official working hours on a weekly basis are around 40 hours_ Hoyneveonoysororkang Roactices 1 there are times where sometimes tend to work more or less than required (depends on the workload & urgency of tasks). My Personal pros: 1. Relatively good pay for freshers (in MY job market) 2. Helpful leaders/colleagues 1 Pezsm7eveochanging industry_- no obligation out of working hours but feel the need to check on my work notifications even during off hours to keep myself updated: Possible meetings during off days/hours 1 doesroog ersdashitookingeyltsone colleagues are even available any time). It's become a norm for us to work on our tasks outside of work hours. any day All in all, it's possible to a high salary as a freshie. Know your worth 1 and use the skills you have to accelerate in your career: And now highly considering to change my career into government relations, compliance/ risk or even public policy: 1 taproiatansharesdoth %u Doovt think I want to do legal till | retire haha get path Fresh would be ranked after 2 yrs. Experienced hire would be ranked after 1 yr: Rankinglassessment system is based on Jack Welch, rank-and- yank system: Every year there is a confirmed attrition; there would be a 1 certain percentage of employees which would be placed into PIP (performance improvement plan)_ Only 0.5-1% employees inside PIP would be successful: The rest; or being terminated: Performance is based on your annual summary & supervisors meeting: Basically if a lot ecpyokrouYosucceeamfodabge 1 bye. Even as an introvert; if people know about you; know your quality of work, work ethics, you can survive. grad quit you' 29, No degree Self taught marketing since 2017 Female Sarawakian Bumiputera Virtual Assistant since December 2021 (main service social media management) 1 Current total retainer: RM435O/m from 3 clients. Another RMIKIm in 1 the pipeline. Previously was earning RM3.SK as a marketing manager for almost two years with no increment: Now 1 Im charging based on the value / can serve my clients and based on what they need: I'm happier now working on different levels of creative challenges wish my ex company understood the value / could have provided them like how my clients see me. MALAYSIAN REALITY WorKiNG ChECk IN SiNGADORE Igot the job in Singapore through a friend's referral (the quickest way): Within 5 years, my salary went from S3.6k to $7.5k, been through multiple jobs from MNC to startups, and back to MNC. Barista, F&B 22/Chinese/F 4 years High school 1.7k In recent times, no people are willing to work in F&B line as it's long working hours with a low pay: Having to deal with backache and J missed out meal time and running everywhere to entertain customers is so hard. So most 1 cafes and restaurants are short staffed: I'm just hoping that customers can be more patient and be understanding cause it may be a one man show for that staff working: Having to do all the tasks alone such as serving food and drinks, making drinks, clearing tables, settling payments and so on. So people, please be kind and have patience whenever you are dining in. Be more kind to the crews in F&B line confidently because the leaders in sirsatomprar austartec Seovice 1 J rep to being team leader: The downside of this job (for a lot of people) is that the job is night shift hours since it's based in the US. Overall happy with this career switch! 1 working hour is 9-6 but the management is quite flexible so an 1 hour late is not a issue since most of us also would stay in the office till 7pm most day: Im not leading a team and generally like my position and have no plan to take any leading position for the time being tho my boss did hinted me to volunteer as a team lead. like what i am doing 1 now; its not very stressful but still challenging and fun to work on.  My Honestly not sure if my salary is satisfactory compared to the market salary; feel that Fraud related jobs are lesser known; so it's hard to 1 fohopeetheicban whareanerrosting insight: | am, however; quite satisfied with my salary as a SPM graduate and feel very lucky to obtain this position. I've learned a lot from this job. 1 think the salary is satisfactory; but Im definitely looking to work 1 way up with enough experience. my 1 At the age of 20, started to work and study at the same time, even though didn't graduate studied at a local university in Malaysia. The reason chose this path was because want to be a good example to my little brothers. As an eldest daughter in a 1 stressful household; | chose to do risky thing that was out of my comfort zone. My parents divorced in 2018. Hence, my mom only depends on me to make sure we are still strong to live with life until today :) @malaysianpaygap 1 yet. got started out in a MNC, with a salary of 3.5k. The benefits and colleagues are good but the salary progression and increment are quite lousy to be honest: In fact, you can ask most MNC folks and they will tell you the same. So guys please explore job sites from time to time if you are aiming for continuous increment:  L before (especistlyrXFociaefereia asking about the legality of overemployment: If your contract doesn' 't forbid you from doing sO, by all means go for it: Apply for a second remote job, you more exposure to how different companies work and most importantly, more money: get As a medical student; |'ve observed doctors who went out of their way to help their patients. One instance that's striking to me right now is this one doctor was shadowing in clinic; slipped a few RM5O notes together while handing the patient's prescription paper because she is homeless; with a toddler and hasn't eat anything for two days. The doctor's kindness inspires me and make me rethink about life. NEED YOUR Currently, can earn up to 3.8k-4k in the IT field as a Service Desk. Recently I've been applying for jobs in the HR field and the range that are offering me is 2.8k-3k (Just wanted to secure myself a job that relates to my fields of studies I'm from Sabah and came to KL just for work purposes: understand that don't have any experience in HR- related jobs but one of my friends who works as a banker in Sabah offered the same range as me_ Advice,_ they got 2022: from maybe 4k up to 20k/ month (approx: 4k + 4.7k + 6k + 5.8k on and off for the different months) 1 did a lot of contract jobs and freelancing on and off, mainly on the side, my mental health was really low but was making bank for my age Imao. part of the reason is because needed to support my partner: he had a hard time: he lost his job and all motivations and the rejection letters weren't helping 1 either: had to US out of it despite how it was impacting my mental health pull Sharing this for any biomedical engineers-to-be out there; being an in-house BME for hospitals definitely pays less than if you were to become 1 field service engineers in medical devices principal or distributor (cont) companies, but at the same time, know your worth and don't settle less. Hospitals are known to give low salaries for BME (with no internship even for private hospitals) , but to negotiate when you apply: 1 IMO, never go below RM2 Sk. RM3k should be the standard for @malaysianpaygap engineering fresh grads. Thanks admin for this page Hope it helps whoever is out there 8 for paid try IM A In @malaysianpaygap submission was annoynmous and condensed WoRK PROGRESS 1 It went to point that sweeping and mopping the floor looks like a tiny job where could warm up before doing hard labours that come after: Mind you, am an athlete and ccassionally goes to the gym but the mental and physical demands is sometimes out of 1 Teptospaoisys bdont yhinkthaty got dropped everytime had to clean up their rodents' litterings. @malaysianpaygap Job Casualty District Doctor 1 StrepanyE afybate Health Minister Basic salary 5,600 MYR @malaysianpaygap 1 This year is my third year working with the KKM, a lot of my friends are leaving: At least 50% of them: |am still a contract doctor; but just got upgraded to UD43 cause completed 1 my first 3 years contract. Haven't got offer for permanent placement yet. Job Procurement Lead Industry Healthcare Salary Pre Tax RM 11 000 Location : Selangor Gender F 32 8 Qualification/Years of Exp MSc, 10 years exp How big is the company? ~50 staff Company type start up 1 Inteathcare   Increment history none working hours 9 hours] day with 1 hr lunch break (As per paper) 12 hours/ day (reality) Age Avg work before graduate because / 0 come from a loW-income family, and need to step out to help my family: Fyi, am nobody and no connection hence it is a Rizq that land a job early: started my career as external auditor and stayed for 4 years (no life, low 1 salary; unbalanced diet; sleep deprived, and health condition deteriorating migraine, often call-in sick days and eyesight worsen that / need to get surgery; but haven't till now) before make a move on to the @malaysianpaygap next journey: 1 Property Realtor & Property Manager; Sales & Management Location: KL 0 1Gaears Ofeieerience Salary: 4Ok to 50k Range in average 1 for over 5 yearsap The moment stepped into the property industry, knew it was where belonged. Despite studying to become a software engineer; couldn't resist the allure of the fast - 1 8 batdworlceseace staoerishging career in property was a challenge, but it felt invigorating: The financial institution one is because the HR is very rude in my opinion; it makes me uncomfortable: While the interviewer (aka my manager) is giving me the cocky vibe. @malaysianpaygap 1 While for the MNC company; | rejected the offer because am not confident whether will learn a lot or not (but are still good thol XDD) Let me start my intern story with the benefits you can get as interns! they How tu MAXtMizE VOuR ANNUAl LEAVE 2024 2 DAY LEAVE FOR A 6 DAY HOLIDAY 13 JUN 14 JUN MALAVSIAN Pavgap was previously a Senior Software Engineer in a local startup which pays me around RMZ,O00 monthly; left after 3 months as the interview result from my current Persoaallytook veryeappe as there 1 is no micromanagement involved, there's daily standups every Spm, but it's a great way to sync with your peers: 1 accepted the offer as find working experience is really irfeorteachey9ou cseipinearsoit 1 skills, and many other more important values. The perks isn't really fancy; but they do provide medical benefits, EPF; and Socso. WELCOME # welcome PaY GAP MalaysianPAYGAP Goodbye Wage Taboo. 475 Online 2,387 Members 4 Boosts Invite Notifications Settings If money were the drive & motivation, a true and real educator wouldn't have chosen to become one Is the salary enough to survive? Yes: Can life be managed? Yes, somehow: Cooretimentsarely, depending on 1 Is the salary proportionate to the work given/done? Definitely NO. However; if money is removed (and replaced with something else) as a yardstick to measure one's success, aereveeleeit aned hencehaegiefuitand 0 good, at least at the end of his/her career: Blessings are passed in various ways and not necessarily in monetary terms. Currently our company allow us to work at home (60 percents) , and at office (40 percent) . Normally will g 3 home (malaysia) because just want to eat Malaysian food will spend that 40% of the months to be at home in Malaysia @malaysianpaygap But now japanese yen is 1 decreasing_so normally people in my job area will get higher in USD: Cons: in gov sector; if you have no interest in specializing, you will be doing the same thing everyday; with no career progress. The pay is actually lower compared to =xprivatealasoleifferenar Depending where you are, the work politics are horrible, and its 1 hard to out once you are stuck in one place: You can simply randomly be transferred out, or being posted far far away, and struggle to to transfer nearby your home if you are from urban areas get get Even to pick up crews and meet with the clients on the night time and even 1 midnight too_ 1 fOtere to haranagerrerd,efeyt ciqanks tracking all the staffs performance all time: Proudly to announce that "you're promoted as Senior Operation Assistant Manager with 3 months performa appraisal investigation before officially promoted" @malaysianpaygap JI cortoggeotioranste0.ltornd vouthat there's more ways to achieve your goals. top they Hi, lemme share my weird exp in 1 corporate life: job: Engineering Manager industry: banking 31 / chinese male 10 years salary: SGD 12k ~4Ik MYR) bonus 2-4 months on good year; i can take 600k myr home pretax: @malaysianpaygap 1 3k Pr progression: started o3kwithevYR SGD 9k -> 1Ok -> 12k (all within 10 years) *o 0 m 9M; AUS N 3 i$ So & 5 0 Y 0 Ce'30? So & big you yummy thank Sponsors our 1 I 8 0|i = their choc milk creaicki Soft connechy gooey (it s moist! ) Cookies MALAVSIAN PavGAP @malaysianpaygap F(IGHT) YOU JOB SCAMMERS! Ultimate List of Company Perks Love Your Company Perks? Submit to 1 Tips for engineers Know the market value and don't be afraid to quote respectable figure for expected salary: Use every certifications, experiences to negotiate higher salary: Many MNCs are willing to pay high salary as long as are convinced that you're worth it. Good luck 1 they Junior Associate, telecommunications 24, female Chinese Kmonths 1 Civil Engineering Degree (unrelated to job) J 4k 3 Skip working in local companies that severely underpay their engineering graduates and jump to other industries if you can: Learning curve may be steep as it's a totally different from what 1 you study, but then again nothing you studied in degree would matter as soon as you start working: Extremely demotivated: Constantly looking for an exit from this life. It's easy to say "Just and go private' What most people 8 don't know is that the large majority of private doctors out there are specialists. Specialist training in Malaysia, especially surgical training, is bound so tightly to numerous government policies that its next to impossible goveeriaeise alichong Vce to do so. 0 J Private medical officers don't earn that much more 0 from government ones and have to forsake the chance to pursue specialist training in the future, but they do have a better work life balance_ 1 Male, Chinese, 2 years in Sarawak, 3 years in Kedah: Born and raised in Selangor: quit "A boss that defends staff facing clients." 'Nuff said. 0 A boss that defends staff in facing clients: Never referred to us as staff, ALWAYS colleague and bounces off ideas from each other: Chases employee away from office when we have finished the days task or too overwhelmed with any: Quality Engineer 26, Malay; Male 2 years JB RM 2200 net after EPF etc. Tbh, being any kind of engineer is 3 tough in manufacturing industry: Idk if other field (0&g, construction etc) get high salary but frankly, engineer is poor: The pro cert or license are expensive and sometimes company will bond the staff for a long period kalau kena hantar pergi course. 1 Have to do ehailing/lalamove on weekends (+/- RM 7o0/month) to survive. JB, KL and Penang are expensive. Contact Centre Specialist ( Team 3 Leader ) Banking Industry Work on 24/7 shift rotation 37/ Malay Female 14 years experience in Contact 1 Centre Kuala Lumpur Bachelor's Degree Current Salary : RM9OOO included shift allowance ) 1 5476.36 USD Payment Completed 10 Feb Bill to 2 Invoice date Due date 7 Feb 2023 On receipt Ship to 8 Develoment Fee For Lucid FiveM: fixes S5o0.00 USD RedM: Doctor and bone system to work together wip, drunk done, walk done; bone done, stamina done,; metabolism done 2 Subtotal SSOo.00 USD Total ~S5Oo.00 USD Amount Paid S5oo.00 USD City Bug After multiple job applications, ended up securing my current role as Country Business Developer: Despite having no sales 2 background, truly enjoy doing what do now: In fact, am very good at what do. genuinely enjoy providing niche solution to upstream N client & get paid well: Also currently; am working with a recruiter for an overseas opening in middle east to secure an expat package. am targetting for a 1to 1 1 conversion in USD for the role & hope I get it Please pray for me): For those; who are struggling to find a job, please dont give up Preserverance is the here." Man Jadda Wajada" Whoever strives will succeed: prior key Dentist 30 Indian Female 5 years working experience Govn sector Salary 5230 after epf and tax deductions The issue with this is it tales 5 1 years to study; about rm4ook to almost a rm1 million cost for 1 stedyeng f _degreeitabdone < rm3ook to rmbook. The amount of hard work that goes into it to even graduate is on a whole new level.As a dentist we are required 8 to pass medical exams as well as dental exams. And we start treating patients under supervision in uni itselfwe already have the experience when we enter the working world.Its impossible to even cover the cost of our degree with this salarv: 3 0 System architect 0 0 Wi $ Yes am valuable asset to my 0 team: Pretty much can't function properly when I'm not around which is bad thing in way of team success. But it's also a good thing for me to be able to negotiate better salary and perks J 1 am happy enough: been here for almost 3 years. gone through 0 veerggood acuispfortivezosa. 1 i'm leading a team of two. will be expanding to 6 in the course of 6 months. Im not sure if my salary match the current market. would love to hear others opinion on this. 1 they Biology teacher (Head of Science department) International education 10 years 8.3k (with allowances) 1 Science degree and teaching qualification 1 Toachireg geaecellyoroyedes efqy all school holidays. However; just Iike most positions the first 3 years is important to build the fundamentals in terms of skills profeescnaredeveloprelenseek for 1 opportunities that can be paid the company: Lastly; don't be afraid to interview at different schools for better packages; know your worth and negotiate fairly but firmly: get NEED YOUR 1 Hi in just from two the the to to Currently 1 dont know asap to Advice,_ advice. some need MPG! and 2022 August graduated companies: offer back got get need still and recruiter need that company which choose personally feel that felt threatened by my management; because improved the team's performance by ~55% in 3 months was hired: The workflow inexleraeritec wids, busOrveonredthad 1 couldn't believe this came from someone 15 years younger: That's my guess anyway: My advice is if you're neurodivergent like me, there are places for you: We I have a way of thinking that is not mafan: We have a way of thinking that; if allowed to prosper; we can thrive and perform so well: So don't give in to toxic workplaces: they they job: R&D Executive in Food Manufacturing (FMCG) Income: RM39O0 gross Side hustle: Freelance consultant 1 in Food Manufacturing 1 IhooreussolSDCoosuitarionuwmii be 1-3hours/session depending on how many questions the client 3 has. just started this so I'm not sure how many sessions | can get in a month @ikhullouskns Day Your strength as a writer comes from your ability to adapt different tones to different audiences; as well as adapting to the new and terrifying formats that keep popping out. @malaysianpaygap 1 becaaly achovgehd theyotcetr {eheey didn't have a public job posting, but / emailed them seeing a position opened on their website. They liked my vibe, I liked theirs and they rest; as say, is history they was quite happy until recently felt my work or my inputs were not 1 appreciated: Many of them still prefers manual taskslroutines: feel like do so many things for my team and contributed for so many things. But; 1 eoougrel seen and appreciated @malaysianpaygap  started looking for jobs but YEARS of experience matters more than 1 EXPOSURE to an experience: | am handling 80% of my ex-senior manager's work and it is not easy:  started my first job as a 1 cybersecurity analyst L1 with salary RM 3500 in 2020 during covid peak period. | came to work with that company without any experience of cybersecurity and IT (networking, loT, etc) 1 only have the basic knowledge of cybersecurity that gained during my master research: To improve my skill, I always watch 1 tybeosetubety rouooessordemy and Linkedln: know many will say interns usually have limited experiencel technical knowledge but feel RM2S/day is on the low side. For context; I'm getting paid RMAO/hr for a part time tutoring job right now: The company even mentioned that applicants hearergciowezalibevonce after 1 The department applied to seems interesting & it's something that I'm interested in learning, but I'm not sure about the actual work are gonna give me tho: Should settle for less & gain fooerigrioe othecopportuneties? Is 1 it true that experience is more important than money (for students & fresh grads)? many they